---
index: 10
title: Default TLS Certificate
modified_at: 2026-01-15 12:00:00
---


By default, all [default domain names][domains-default] (ending in
`scalingo.io`) are protected by a wildcard certificate issued by Gandi. This
certificate is managed by the platform. It automatically allows any application
hosted on Scalingo to be reached via both `http` and `https` as soon as they
are created.

When adding a [custom domain name][domains-custom], Scalingo automatically
leverage Let's Encrypt to generate a dedicated TLS certificate.

Once issued, a Let's Encrypt certificate is given a 90 days validity period.
The platform ensures all certificates are renewed when necessary. This process
is fully automated and integrated, so you don't have to worry about it.

The platform also follows Let's Encrypt best practices by starting the renewal
process when a certificate is 60 days old. If the renewal process fails, the
platform automatically retries later. The delay between each attempt is
determined using an exponential backoff algorithm. This algorithm is capped to
a **minimum** of one attempt per day.


## Certificate Statuses

At Scalingo, a Let's Encrypt certificate can have one of these statuses:

Pending DNS
: When you [link a domain name][domains-custom-setup] to your application, we
  wait for it to target our infrastructure before generating the certificate.
  We check the DNS record automatically every 60 seconds.

Creating
: Our infrastructure is exchanging messages with Let's Encrypt servers to
  generate your certificate.

In use
: Your website is available using HTTPS connections thanks to a Let's Encrypt
  certificate.

Not used
: Your website is available using HTTPS connections thanks to a custom
  certificate.

Action required
: To achieve the creation of your Let's Encrypt certificate for a [wildcard
  domain], please follow [these additional
  instructions](#using-a-wildcard-domain).


## Technical Considerations

- The platform is limited by [official Let’s Encrypt
  quotas][letsencrypt-quotas] to a maximum of 50 generated certificates per
  [apex domain] per week. Generating a certificate for `www.example.com`,
  `app.example.com`, and `example.com` within the same week would count as 3.


## Using a Wildcard Domain

When the platform generates a Let's Encrypt certificate for a [wildcard
domain], an additional `TXT` DNS record must be added to the corresponding
[zone file]. This `TXT` RR allows the platform to verify you are indeed owning
the domain name.

This mandatory action is highlighted by the "Action required" status shown on
the dashboard. Clicking on the question mark gives you the instructions and the
value of the `TXT` record to create.

Here is an example of such a `TXT` RR:
```
NAME                         TTL   TYPE    VALUE
_acme-challenge.example.com  120   TXT     5TWm4V7xoUpGax-58FrPO49
```

This `TXT` record must be updated every three months for the platform to be
able to renew the certificate.

This renewal process can be done manually, or it can be automated when working
with several registrars. We currently support [Azure DNS](#azure-dns),
[Cloudflare](#cloudflare), [dnsimple](#dnssimple), [Gandi](#gandi), [Google
Cloud DNS](#google-cloud-dns), [GoDaddy](#godaddy), [OVH Cloud](#ovh-cloud),
and [AWS Route 53](#aws-route-53).

To allow us do the work for you, you'll have to create a few [environment
variables][env].

### Azure DNS

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable        | Description                |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`              | Must be set to `azure`     |
| `DNS_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`       | Your Azure client ID       |
| `DNS_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`   | Your Azure client secret   |
| `DNS_AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` | Your Azure subscription ID |
| `DNS_AZURE_TENANT_ID`       | Your Azure tenant ID       |
| `DNS_AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP`  | Your Azure resource group  |

For more information about Azure DNS, see their [documentation][azure-doc].

### Cloudflare

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable     | Description                     |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`           | Must be set to `cloudflare`     |
| `DNS_CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL`   | Your Cloudlflare e-mail address |
| `DNS_CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY` | Your Cloudlfare global API key  |

For more information about Cloudflare, see their
[documentation][cloudflare-doc].

### dnsimple

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable       | Description               |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`             | Must be set to `dnsimple` |
| `DNS_DNSIMPLE_OAUTH_TOKEN` | Your dnsimple OAuth token |

For more information about dnsimple, see their[documentation][dnsimple-doc].

### Gandi

#### Gandi

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable | Description            |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`       | Must be set to `gandi` |
| `DNS_GANDI_API_KEY`  | Your Gandi API key     |

For more information about Gandi, see their [documentation][gandi-doc].

#### Gandiv5

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable  | Description              |
| --------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`        | Must be set to `gandiv5` |
| `DNS_GANDIV5_API_KEY` | Your Gandi v5 API key    |

For more information about Gandi v5, see their [documentation][gandiv5-doc].

### Google Cloud DNS

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable   | Description                                  |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`         | Must be set to `gcloud`                          |
| `DNS_GCLOUD_JSON_KEYS` | Your Service account file, **encoded in base64** |

The Service account file must be encoded in base64:
```bash
base64 --wrap=0 service_account_file.json
```

For more information about Google Cloud DNS, see their
[documentation][gcloud-doc].

### GoDaddy

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable     | Description              |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`           | Must be set to `godaddy` |
| `DNS_GODADDY_API_KEY`    | Your GoDaddy API key     |
| `DNS_GODADDY_API_SECRET` | Your GoDaddy API secret  |

For more information about GoDaddy, see their [documentation][godaddy-doc].

### OVH Cloud

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable         | Description                 |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`               | Must be set to `ovh`        |
| `DNS_OVH_ENDPOINT`           | Either `ovh-eu` or `ovh-ca` |
| `DNS_OVH_APPLICATION_KEY`    | Your OVH application key    |
| `DNS_OVH_APPLICATION_SECRET` | Your OVH application secret |
| `DNS_OVH_CONSUMER_KEY`       | Your OVH consumer key       |

For more information about OVH Cloud, see their [documentation][ovh-doc].

### AWS Route 53

The following environment variables must be created and properly filled:

| Environment Variable        | Description                |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `DNS_PROVIDER`              | Must be set to `route53`   |
| `DNS_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Your AWS access key ID     |
| `DNS_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Your AWS secret access key |
| `DNS_AWS_HOSTED_ZONE_ID`    | Your AWS hosted zone ID    |

For more information about AWS Route 53, see their
[documentation][route53-doc].


## Disabling Let's Encrypt

Our Let's Encrypt features can be completely disabled.

{% note %}
When disabling Let's Encrypt features, providing a valid certificate and
renewing it on time becomes **your responsibility**.
{% endnote %}

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool][cli]
2. Issue the following command to add the domain name to your app, and specify
   you don't want any of the Let's Encrypt features:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app domains-add --no-letsencrypt example.com
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Make sure the `letsencrypt_enabled` attribute of the corresponding
   `scalingo_domain`resource block is set to `false`:
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_domain" "example.com" {
     common_name = "example.com"
     app = "${scalingo_app.my-app.id}"
     letsencrypt_enabled = false
   }
   ```


*[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
*[RR]: Resource Record

[letsencrypt-quotas]: https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/
[azure-doc]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/
[cloudflare-doc]: https://api.cloudflare.com/#getting-started-requests
[dnsimple-doc]: https://developer.dnsimple.com/v2/#authentication
[gandi-doc]: https://doc.rpc.gandi.net/domain/usage.html
[gandiv5-doc]: https://doc.livedns.gandi.net/#introduction
[gcloud-doc]: https://cloud.google.com/dns/docs/
[godaddy-doc]: https://developer.godaddy.com/getstarted
[ovhcloud-doc]: https://docs.ovh.com/gb/en/customer/first-steps-with-ovh-api/
[route53-doc]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/Welcome.html

[cli]: {% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}
[zone file]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#zonefile
[apex domain]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#apex-domain
[wildcard domain]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#wildcard-domain
[domains-default]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-default %}
[domains-custom]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-custom %}
[domains-custom-setup]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-custom %}#setting-up-the-domain-name
[env]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}
