---
index: 20
nav: Custom TLS Certificate
title: Custom TLS Certificate
modified_at: 2025-12-31 12:00:00
---


While Scalingo can [automatically handle][cert-default] all the burden of
generating and renewing the certificates linked to a domain name, you may not
want to rely on these features, and instead provide your own certificate using
another CA.

{% note %}
When providing your own TLS certificate:
- Chosing the encryption algorithm and key size is your responsibility.
- Renewing the custom certificate is your responsibility.
{% endnote %}


## Setting Up a Custom Certificate

1. [Generating a custom certificate](#generating-a-custom-certificate)
2. [Importing the custom certificate chain](#importing-a-custom-certificate)

### Generating a Certificate Signing Request

1. Generate a key pair, and the corresponding Certificate Signing Request
   (CSR):
   ```bash
   openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -sha256 -nodes -keyout my-app.key -out my-app.csr
   ```

   The above command creates a 2048 bytes long key using the RSA algorithm.
   Chosing the algorithm and the key length is your responsibility.

   The tool asks for different information related to your certificate.
   Particular attention should be given to these ones:
   - **Country Name**: [ISO 3166-1][iso3166-1] two letters code for your
     country
   - **Common Name**: domain name you want to secure

The command creates two files:
- **`my-app.key`**: the private key, which **must be kept secret**
- **`my-app.csr`**: the CSR, which has to be signed by a CA

### Signing the Certificate Signing Request

1. Submit your CSR to your CA to generate a valid certificate.\\
   This service is often charged by the CA!

2. Make sure your key and certificate files are in [PEM
   format](#converting-to-pem).

### Creating the Certificate Chain

Most CA provide certificate chains or bundles alongside your signed
certificate (most common is the Certification Authority, but they may supply
intermediary certificates too).

1. Before uploading the custom certificate to Scalingo, you have to first
   create a single file containing all the certificates of the chain,
   **including your custom certificate**. This file must be in [PEM
   format](#converting-to-pem), and must look like this:

   ```text
   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   .... your certificate
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   .... intermediate certificate 1
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   .... intermediate certificate 2
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
   ```

{% note %}
Online services such as [KeyCDN's Certificate Checker][keycdn-cert-checker] can
help you check the validity of your certificate chain.
{% endnote %}

### Importing the Custom Certificate

Once you have the certificate chain ready, upload it to Scalingo.

#### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard]
2. Click on the application for which you want to add a custom TLS
   certificate
3. Click on the **Settings** tab
4. From the **Settings** sub-menu, select **Public Routing**
5. Locate the **Custom domains** block
6. Locate the domain name for which you want to set the certificate
7. Click the corresponding pen icon
8. Select the certificate chain and key you want to use
9. Click the **Upload** button

#### Using the Command Line

- If the domain name is already attached to your app:
  ```bash
  scalingo --app my-app domains-ssl --cert my-app.crt --key my-app.key www.example.com
  ```

- If the domain name is not yet attached to your app:
  ```bash
  scalingo --app my-app domains-add --cert my-app.crt --key my-app.key www.example.com
  ```

In both cases, the modification is instantly applied.

### Converting to PEM

Your certificate may have been supplied in a binary format by your CA: if you
have a `.cer`, a `.crt` or a `.der` file, it *should* be binary. But those
extensions are sometimes used for PEM files too.

{% note %}
These file formats (and extensions) are part of a standard called
[X.509][x509], which is why your provider may have given you an "X509
certificate". This is the generic name for the certificate format.
{% endnote %}

You can check the file format by opening it with a text editor: if you see
`BEGIN CERTIFICATE`, then it's textual. If this is a binary file, your editor
should tell you so.

In the latter case, you can convert it to text using `openssl`. The following
command should help you achieve this task:

```bash
openssl x509 -inform DER -in my-certificate.crt -out my-certificate.pem
```


## Forgetting to Renew a Certificate

If you forget to renew a custom certificate on time, or if you remove it from
your domain name, and unless you have [completely opted out of Let's Encrypt
features](#disabling-lets-encrypt), Scalingo automatically and immediately
generates a Let's Encrypt certificate so your app remains reachable via HTTPS.


*[CA]: Certificate Authority
*[CSR]: Certificate Signing Request
*[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
*[RR]: Resource Record

[iso3166-1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2
[keycdn-cert-checker]: https://tools.keycdn.com/ssl
[x509]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509

[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com

[cli]: {% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}
[cert-default]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/cert/2000-01-01-default %}

