---
index: 1
title: Overview
modified_at: 2026-02-01 12:00:00
---

Keycloak is an open-source identity and access management solution designed to
secure modern applications and services. It provides features such as single
sign-on (SSO), user federation, and social login integration. It supports
standard protocols like [OAuth 2.0], [OpenID Connect], and [SAML].  It also
offers centralized user management, role-based access control, and fine-grained
permissions. Overall, Keycloak helps organizations improve security while
simplifying the work of developers with authentication and authorization.


## Planning your Deployment

- Keycloak provides quite precise [recommendations][keycloak-reco] in terms of
  CPU, RAM and databases. Sizing mostly depends on the foreseen usage and
  expected performances.

- Keycloak requires a rough minimum of 1.5GB of RAM to run, and quite a lot of
  CPU (Keycloak spends a lot of time hashing, opening TLS connections, etc.).
  Consequently, we advise provisioning at least one XL container.

- Remember that Scalingo allows to easily scale your app and resources, so you
  can start small and grow depending on metrics.

- Keycloak requires its own database. Considering the key role Keycloak is
  generally playing, we advise to always deploy with a [Scalingo for
  PostgreSQL® Business addon][db-postgresql], mainly to benefit from the higher
  SLA and redundancy.

- Keycloak requires Java version 21 or above to run. We can instruct Scalingo
  to use a specific version of Java by using the `system.properties` file, as
  described in [our documentation][choose-jdk].

- Keycloak is designed for multi-node clustered setups. In production mode, it
  uses a distributed cache (implemented via Infinispan) to share some resources
  between nodes. To be able to benefit from this cache, which is highly
  recommended, consider [deploying Keycloak in a Private
  Network][deploy-private-network]:

  - Infinispan uses several TCP ports to run. Running inside a [Private
    Network][private-networking] gives us the ability to run such a mechanism.

  - Infinispan also features some auto-discovery mechanism to automatically
    update the list of available nodes in the cluster. By relying on it, we can
    ensure the cache is always well distributed between the available nodes.

  - To do so, we have to make sure Keycloak listens on the [Private Network IP
    addresses][private-networking-addressing] for everything related to the
    Infinispan distributed cache.

  - While the cache is available from any container of the cluster, it's still
    better (performances-wise) to have the same client always communicate with
    the same container. This can be achieved by enabling the [sticky sessions]
    feature of Scalingo.

- For further security, [deploying Keycloak behind a reverse
  proxy][deploy-behind-reverse-proxy] can also be envisionned.

{% note %}
These guides aim at helping deploy Keycloak on Scalingo. Configuring and
managing Keycloak is out of the scope of these guides.
{% endnote %}


*[SSO]: Single Sign-On
*[SLA]: Service Level Agreement

[OAuth 2.0]: https://oauth.net/2/
[OpenID Connect]: https://openid.net
[SAML]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language
[keycloak-reco]: https://www.keycloak.org/high-availability/single-cluster/concepts-memory-and-cpu-sizing

[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com/

[db-postgresql]: {% post_url databases/postgresql/about/2000-01-01-overview %}
[choose-jdk]: {% post_url languages/java/2000-01-01-start %}#choose-a-jdk
[deploy-private-network]: {% post_url platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-keycloak/2000-01-01-deploying-in-a-private-network %}
[deploy-behind-reverse-proxy]: {% post_url platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-keycloak/2000-01-01-deploying-behind-a-reverse-proxy %}
[private-networking]: {% post_url platform/networking/private/2000-01-01-overview %}
[private-networking-addressing]: {% post_url platform/networking/private/2000-01-01-concepts %}#addressing



[keycloak-scalingo]: https://github.com/Scalingo/keycloak-scalingo
[keycloak-reverse-proxy]: https://www.keycloak.org/server/reverseproxy

[private domain name]: {% post_url platform/networking.private/2000-01-01-concepts %}#private-domain-names
[h-scaling]: {% post_url platform/app/scaling/2000-01-01-scaling %}#horizontal-scaling
[sticky sessions]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-sticky-sessions %}
[procfile]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}
[project]: {% post_url platform/projects/2000-01-01-overview %}

