---
title: Scaling Your Application
nav: Scaling
modified_at: 2026-01-02 12:00:00
index: 10
---

In a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment such as Scalingo, ***scaling***
refers to adjusting the application's capacity to handle varying workloads. We
usually distinguish two different approaches: [***vertical*** scaling](#vertical-scaling)
and [***horizontal*** scaling](#horizontal-scaling).


## Understanding Scaling

### Vertical Scaling

Vertical scaling involves increasing (*scaling up*) or decreasing (*scaling
down*) the capacity of a single resource, such as CPU, memory, or storage of an
existing server or container.

When using Scalingo, vertical scaling is accomplished by changing the plan you
are using (e.g. switching your app container from a L instance to an XL one,
or changing your database addon's plan from a Starter 512M to a Starter 1G).

Vertical scaling is generally favored when dealing with legacy applications
that aren't designed for distributed workloads, or for monolithic applications
with predictable growth and resource needs.

{% warning %}
[Scaling up](#vertical-scaling) or [scaling down](#vertical-scaling) an application **disables** any [Scalingo Autoscaler] enabled for the corresponding process type.
{% endwarning %}

### Horizontal Scaling

Horizontal scaling involves adding (*scaling out*) or removing (*scaling in*)
instances of a resource to distribute the workload across all these instances.
When using Scalingo, horizontal scaling is accomplished by either booting
additional containers or by removing running ones.

The platform [**automatically** routes the traffic][routing-requests]
to the available instances. This process, called *load balancing*, allows to
evenly distribute the load across multiple containers.

Horizontal scaling has multiple advantages:
- it adds fault tolerance and resilience to your application, as the failure of
  one instance does not affect others.
- it can scale almost infinitely, allowing your application to grow fast.
- it can save costs, as the number of running containers can be automatically
  adjusted (up and down) depending on your current application needs.

For all these reasons, horizontal scaling is generally better suited for
applications with distributed architectures that require high availability, and
the ability to adapt to unpredictable or fluctuating workloads. It's often the
best approach in PaaS environments such as Scalingo.

### Choosing Between Vertical and Horizontal Scaling

Both forms of scaling are complementary. You will often need to combine both
horizontal (scale out/in) and vertical scaling (scale up/down) to adapt your
application to traffic fluctuations.

Here is a quick comparison table, in the context of a Platform as a Service:

|                 | Vertical Scaling                        | Horizontal Scaling                |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| **Approach**    | Enhancing individual instance capacity  | Adding more instances             |
| **Cost**        | Can become expensive at higher limits   | Often more cost-efficient         |
| **Resilience**  | Low (single point of failure)           | High (distributed resources)      |
| **Flexibility** | Low, limited by physical/virtual constraints | High, limited by the application architecture |
| **When**        | Lack or overuse of CPU or RAM (swap increase or decrease) | Increase or decrease in total application traffic |


## Limitations

- Vertical scaling is limited by the platform. The biggest container we can
  currently boot is the `2XL` container, with 4GB of RAM. For a comprehensive
  list of container sizes and corresponding specifications, please see our
  [dedicated documentation page]({% post_url platform/internals/2000-01-01-container-sizes %}).
- Horizontal scaling is limited by default to a maximum of 10 containers per
  [process type]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}). This limit
  can be increased via our support team.


## Costs

Scaling operations themselves are free, meaning there is no additional charge
for changing the number or size of containers. However, scaling affects the
number or size of allocated resources, which in turn impacts the total cost of
your application.


## Scaling Vertically

### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on the application you want to scale up or down
3. Click on the **Resources** tab
4. Locate the **Containers** block
5. Next to the process type you want to scale up/down, locate the **Size**
   dropdown
6. From the dropdown, select the new size for the corresponding container(s)
7. Click the **Scale** button on the right side

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_scaling.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, run the following command to view the current
   formation:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app scale
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   |  NAME  | AMOUNT | SIZE | COMMAND |
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   | web    |      1 | M    | -       |
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   ```
   In the example above, the application runs with one `web` container of size
   `M`.
3. From the command line, run the following command to scale up to a `XL`
   container:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app scale web:1:XL
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```
   Your application is being scaled to:
     web: 1 - XL
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Set the `size` value of the `scalingo_container_type` `resource` block in
   your Terraform file to define the size of the container(s) running the
   corresponding [process type]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}):
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_container_type" "web" {
     app    = scalingo_app.my_app.name
     name   = "web"
     amount = 1
     size   = "XL"
   }
   ```
   In this example, we ask the platform to use `XL` container(s) to run the
   `web` process type.


## Scaling Horizontally

### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on the application you want to scale out or in
3. Click on the **Resources** tab
4. Locate the **Containers** block
5. Next to the process type you want to scale up/down, locate the **Qty**
   dropdown
6. From the dropdown, select the number of container(s) to start
7. Click the **Scale** button on the right side

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_scaling.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, run the following command to view the current
   formation:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app scale
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   |  NAME  | AMOUNT | SIZE | COMMAND |
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   | web    |      1 | M    | -       |
   +--------+--------+------+---------+
   ```
   In the example above, the application runs with 1 `web` container of size
   `M`.
3. From the command line, run the following command to scale out to 5 `web`
   containers of size `M`:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app scale web:5:M
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```
   Your application is being scaled to:
     web: 5 - M
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Set the `amount` value of the `scalingo_container_type` `resource` block in
   your Terraform file to define the size of the container(s) running the
   corresponding [process type]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}):
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_container_type" "web" {
     app    = scalingo_app.my_app.name
     name   = "web"
     size   = "M"
     amount = 5
   }
   ```
   In this example, we ask the platform to start 5 containers running the `web`
   process type.

{% note %}
It is also possible to scale both horizontally **and** vertically at the same
time using the dashboard, the Command Line or the Terraform Provider.
{% endnote %}


## Monitoring Scaling Events

The following event is available to monitor the scaling operations:

| Event        | Description                                                     |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `app_scaled` | A scaling operation (scale in and scale out) has been triggered |

To learn more about events and notifications, please visit the page dedicated
to [app notifications]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-notification %}).


[routing-requests]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}#requests-distribution
[Scalingo Autoscaler]: {% post_url platform/app/scaling/2000-01-01-scalingo-autoscaler %}
