---
title: Node.js
nav: Yarn 2 and Yarn 3 Compatibility
modified_at: 2021-12-10 00:00:00
tags: nodejs
---

# What's new in new Yarn major version

Yarn was developed as an alternative way to handle Node.js dependencies to NPM
but was fully compatible with it. They were both manipulating the
`node_modules` directory and switching to one or the other tool was
straightforward.

Yarn 2 and Yarn 3 have evolved to use another approached, aiming at making
dependency management for Node.js application more efficient, especially during
its deployment.

{% warning %}
This article only covers application using the Node.js buildpack and not other
buildpacks which include installation of a Node.js stack like Ruby or PHP. If
Yarn 2 or 3 is used alongside a Ruby or PHP application, the
[multi-buildpacks]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi
%}) should be used.
{% endwarning %}

You are not forced to migrate to Yarn 2 or 3, compatibility with Yarn 1 will be
kept as long as possible. But to enjoy fastest deployments and last patches,
you are encouraged to upgrade your project or get back to NPM.

New versions of Yarn have 2 ways to work:

* With Plug'n Play: it is expected to checkout the application dependencies
  `.yarn/cache` in your git repository. It will accelerate deployment since it
  won't be necessary to download dependencies that are already in your repository.
  Don't worry Yarn is optimizing and compressing them to prevent using too much space.
  No `node_modules` directory will be present at the end of the build.

* Without Plug'n Play: Dependencies will be downloaded normally during the
  deployment and linked into the `node_modules` directory, it's
  retrocompatible with most tools you have been using.

More details in the [Yarn official documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/migration).

# Setting up your project

## 1. Switch to the last stable Yarn version

Configure Yarn to use its more recent ≥ v2.0.0 release

```
yarn set version berry
yarn install
```

The file `yarn.lock` is updated and new files are added to the `.yarn` directory.

## 2a. Configure with Plug'n Play enabeld

### Update your `.gitignore` file

Modify your `.gitignore` to ensure only required files are committed into
your repository, add the following:

```
.yarn/*
!.yarn/cache
!.yarn/patches
!.yarn/plugins
!.yarn/releases
!.yarn/sdks
!.yarn/versions
```

### Disable dependency caching in your app

```
scalingo --app my-app env-set NODE_MODULES_CACHE=false
```

### Add checkout config, metadata and cache files

```
git add yarn.lock .yarn .pnp.*
git commit -m "Deploy with Yarn 3 with Plug'n Play mode"
```

## 2b. OR - Configure without Plug'n Play enabled (retrocompatibily mode)

### Update your `.gitignore` file

Modify your `.gitignore` to ensure only required files are committed into
your repository, add the following:

```
.pnp.*
.yarn/*
!.yarn/patches
!.yarn/plugins
!.yarn/releases
!.yarn/sdks
!.yarn/versions
node_modules
```

### Update your `.yarnrc.yaml` file

Modify or add the line:

```
nodeLinker: "node-modules"
```

### Add checkout config, metadata files

```
git add yarn.lock .yarn
git commit -m "Deploy with Yarn 3 without Plug'n Play mode"
```

## 3. Reset your deployment cache

Since it may create conflict with the new dependencies management system.

```
scalingo --app my-app deployment-delete-cache
```

## 4. Deploy your application

```
git push scalingo master
```

