---
title: Scalingo Database Addons
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2024-11-28 12:00:00
tags: index-databases
index: 1
---

You applications need databases to store your data. As we believe your data
should be located geographically close to your application servers we support
the most common types of database.

We ensure your database is located at the same location as your applications.
It provides the best performances and latency possible. Moreover you know where
your data is.

## Database Plans

Scalingo offers three ***classes*** of service with distinct characteristics,
enabling you to choose the level of performance, replication, security and
price that suits your use case. All our plans are 100% managed and billed on
demand.

You can **seamlessly** switch between plans and service classes in just a few
seconds, from the smallest single-node instance plan to the largest multi-node
cluster plan, and everything in between.

### Sandbox

The Sandbox class is designed for testing and development environments. It is
ideal for evaluating our service or testing new technology.

It is not suitable for hosting production workloads due to its performance
limitations and lack of guaranteed availability and backups.

{% note %}
Once you have changed for a Starter or Business plan, it is not advisable to
switch back to a Sandbox plan. The performance and storage constraints of the
Sandbox plan cannot ensure the proper functioning of a database that was
previously on a Starter or Business plan.
{% endnote %}

### Starter

The Starter class is designed for applications under development and
non-critical, production environments. With an SLA of 98% and back-up retention
of one month, it offers a secure, high-performance environment for a wide range
of use cases.

### Business

The Business class is Scalingo’s flagship. It guarantees high availability and
reliability, which are essential for critical production applications. Thanks
to hot replication of your data on a standby instance, we ensure service
continuity along with a 99.96% SLA. For complete protection, backup retention
is extended to 1 year.


## Database Types

### SQL

* [Scalingo for PostgreSQL®]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-overview %})
* [Scalingo for MySQL®]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-overview %})

### NoSQL

* [Scalingo for MongoDB®]({% post_url databases/mongodb/2000-01-01-start %})
* [Scalingo for Redis®]({% post_url databases/redis/2000-01-01-start %})
* [Scalingo for Elasticsearch®]({% post_url databases/elasticsearch/2000-01-01-start %})
* [Scalingo for InfluxDB®]({% post_url databases/influxdb/2000-01-01-start %})


## Backups Retention Policy

{% include database_backups.md %}


## Encryption at Rest

All databases created after the 6th of January 2019 have encryption at rest
enabled. In other words, all your data is encrypted before being stored on
disk.

Encryption at rest leverages a feature of the Linux Kernel allowing to encrypt
data at the disk level named `dm-crypt`. The algorithm used is
`aes-xts-plain64` with a key size of 256 bits and hashed using `SHA-256`. This
method is considered secure and standard in the industry. To reduce the attack
surface, each instance of each database has its own cryptographic key to
protect its data, so getting access to one key wouldn't allow an attacker to
get plain data from another database. The keys are stored in a database which
is itself encrypted and protected by authentication.


## Communication With TLS

We enable for all database types the possibility to connect to them using TLS.
By default, you can connect both with or without TLS to your database. You can
also enforce all connections to use TLS by activating the "Force TLS
Connections" feature in the web dashboard of your addon:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_force_tls.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

{% note %}
The default behaviour is slightly different for Elasticsearch® and InfluxDB®.
These databases cannot listen to both TLS and non-TLS connections at the same
time. Hence, by default, these database do not listen on the TLS port. You need
to enable the "Force TLS Connections" feature to reach these databases using
TLS.
{% endnote %}

Moreover, we also encrypt all communications between the members of cluster:

- from the gateways to the leader,
- from the leader to the followers,
- between the cluster orchestrator and its database for PostgreSQL databases.

## Connection Timeouts

Most of our high availability setups contain a HAProxy as entry point to the
actual database nodes. This HAProxy has a few timeouts configured which may
impact your application, especially if you reuse connections. The concerned
databases are:

- Scalingo for Elasticsearch®:
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 1 minute.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 2 minutes.
  - Maximum allowed time to wait for a complete HTTP request: 5 seconds.

- Scalingo for PostgreSQL®:
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 1 day.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 30 minutes.
  - Inactivity timeout on the client side for half-closed connections: 5 minutes.

- Scalingo for Redis®:
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 5 minutes.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 5 minutes.
  - Inactivity timeout on the client side for half-closed connections: 1 hour.
