---
title: Regions
modified_at: 2026-01-02 12:00:00
tags: internals regions
index: 10
---

Scalingo is available on multiple regions. Here is the list of publicly
available regions:

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content" markdown="1">
| Name           | Provider                              | Provider Region     | Location      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| osc-fr1        | [3DS Outscale](https://outscale.com/) | eu-west-2           | Paris, France |
| osc-secnum-fr1 | [3DS Outscale](https://outscale.com/) | cloudgouv-eu-west-1 | Paris, France |

{: .table }
</div>

{% note %}
The `osc-secnum-fr1` region is restricted and is only available upon request
on the support.

More informations on this [page]({% post_url security/procedures/2000-01-01-secnumcloud %}).
{% endnote %}

## Accessing a Specific Region

### Using the Web Dashboard

The web dashboard is available at
[https://dashboard.scalingo.com](https://dashboard.scalingo.com).

If your account has access to multiple regions, you will be able to see your
applications that are present on the different regions.

And when you want to create an application, you will be presented with a
selection screen to allow you to choose the region on which you want to
create the application.

### Using the CLI

If you use the CLI to manage your application, all commands have the
flag `--region` to specify the region you want to use.

You can list all the regions with `scalingo regions`:

```bash
$ scalingo regions
+----------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|      NAME      |            DISPLAY             |              API ENDPOINT               |
+----------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| osc-fr1        | Paris - Outscale               | https://api.osc-fr1.scalingo.com        |
| osc-secnum-fr1 | Paris - SecNumCloud - Outscale | https://api.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.com |
+----------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
```

#### Changing the CLI default region

You can set the default region in the CLI with the command
`scalingo config --region $REGION_NAME`.
For example to use the region `osc-fr1` you can type:
`scalingo config --region osc-fr1`.

You can also set the default region by defining the environment variable `SCALINGO_REGION`.

## Difference Between Regions

Various elements change between the different regions.
Here is the exhaustive list of the difference between the regions:

### App Domain Name

All applications have a default subdomain under `REGION_NAME.scalingo.io`
and it will always be linked to your application.

* osc-fr1: `APP_NAME.osc-fr1.scalingo.io`
* osc-secnum-fr1: `APP_NAME.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.io`

### SSH Endpoints

{% include ssh_endpoints.md %}

The public keys fingerprints are:

* `ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com`:
  * RSA: `f7y5p9OlI+UCuQoXctVNVj3pVkehTgUBWZz/0PtkGR8`
  * Ed25519: `vMMyB6vYf+U68JFAcK/vAL6g4DOKGmT/LMwLhzI9+3E`
* `ssh.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.com`
  * RSA: `D2pGNXIDrEREqRUlElMDGQPkGK641e+hnWMbc7APRmM`
  * Ed25519: `kPzs5j39HdIVRgVZpQUgm9RtW9uqtFcHJz2M6ykZOiw`

### API Endpoints

{% include api_endpoints.md %}

### Database API Endpoints

{% include db_api_endpoints.md %}

### Outgoing IP Addresses

The IP addresses of the traffic outgoing from Scalingo hosted applications
depend on the region. The possible values are listed [here]({% post_url
platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-egress %}).

### Docker Registries

These Docker registries are only useful when the
[Scalingo Docker Image]({% post_url addons/scalingo-docker-image/2000-01-01-start %})
addon is used.

{% include registry_endpoints.md %}
