---
title: Logs
modified_at: 2023-02-20 00:00:00
tags: app logs
index: 18
---

The platform handles 3 types of logs:
* Application logs: it's everything your applications write on `stdout` and `stderr`.
* Addon logs: it's everything our homemade addons (typically databases) write on `stdout` and `stderr`.
* Router logs: it contains all the connections made to your application (not enable by default).

All those logs are accessible through [Scalingo CLI]({% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-features %}) or through the web dashboard in the "Logs" tab.

When opening the "Logs" tab, the last 100 lines are displayed and all new lines are automatically streaming to your browser.

If you need a bit of historical logs, you should use the Scalingo CLI with:

```shell
scalingo --app my-app logs --lines <number of log lines>
```

Replace `<number of log lines>` with the amount of lines you want to display.

The Scalingo CLI also lets you fetch the addons' logs. You first need to retrieve the addon ID (starting with `ad-`) then query the logs:

```sh
scalingo --app my-app addons
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+
|   ADDON    |                   ID                    |          PLAN          |
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+
| PostgreSQL | ad-1c48f4a8-0a38-4f75-9a40-4084b8e22743 | postgresql-starter-512 |
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+

scalingo --app my-app logs --addon ad-1c48f4a8-0a38-4f75-9a40-4084b8e22743 --lines <number of log lines>
```

{% note %}
The order of the log lines is not guaranteed due to the way the Scalingo logs stack works. One should refer to the timestamp of the logs to sort them.
{% endnote %}

These live logs are called **hot logs**: they are the most recent logs of your application or addon. When your application logged more than 50 MiB logs, Scalingo archive them in a log archive. We call them **cold logs**: they are not as recent as the hot logs but can be downloaded for later analysis.

## Logs Archives

When your log file grows bigger than 50 MiB, it is archived automatically. It is then available in the Logs Archive. Archived logs are no longer available with the `logs` command of the CLI.

On the dashboard side, to access the logs archives proceed as follows:

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard][dashboard]
2. Open an application in Resources tab
3. Click the **Logs** tab
4. Press **View archives** button
5. Choose the archive you want to download
6. Press **Download** button

These archives are also accessible using the CLI:

```
scalingo --app my-app logs-archives
```

You can fetch the other pages of logs archives with the `--page` option.

## Log Drain

You may want to forward logs to third party providers for high level search and alerting capabilities. This is configurable using our [Log Drain]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-log-drain %}) feature.

## Log Retention

Scalingo is a French-based company, thus logs retention is ruled by French and Europeans laws.

* [*Loi pour la Confiance dans l'Économie Numerique - LCEN, Article 6-8.II*](https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/jorf/article_jo/JORFARTI000002457442): 1 year
* [*Code des postes et des communications électroniques Article R10-13.III*](https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/codes/article_lc/LEGIARTI000025622766/): 1 year
* [*Recommandation sur la Journalisation (CNIL 2021)*](https://www.cnil.fr/sites/default/files/atoms/files/recommandation_-_journalisation.pdf): Min 6 months, max 1 year

As a result, all logs on Scalingo are kept for 1 year.

* Connection Metadata logs: Archived privately
* Application logs: (include router logs if enabled) Archived through the "Logs Archives" feature
* Database Addon logs: Archived through the "Logs Archives" feature
 
[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com/
