---
title: Application Crash
modified_at: 2023-05-17 00:00:00
tags: app crash recovery
index: 12
---

When the platform starts your container(s) (be it after a successful build,
after a scale operation or after a restart operation), your application enters
the *run* phase of its [lifespan]({% post_url platform/internals/2000-01-01-container-management %}).
Unfortunately, bad things may still happen during this phase, which can lead
your application to crash.

Various reasons can explain why your application's lifespan ends up shortened.
At Scalingo, we distinguish two main kinds of crash:
**[Boot Errors](#understanding-boot-errors)** and
**[Runtime Errors](#understanding-runtime-errors)**.


## Understanding Boot Errors

**Boot Errors** can only occur when your container is still in its *starting*
state, **before** entering its *running* state. At this moment, your build is
successful, but your deployment is still ongoing and the platform doesn't
consider your application as *running* yet.

These errors are thrown by the platform when it detects that your application
doesn't behave as expected.

There are 3 kinds of Boot Errors:
[Start Errors](#understanding-start-errors),
[Timeout Errors](#understanding-timeout-errors) and
[Hook Errors](#understanding-hook-errors).

### Understanding Start Errors

The **Start Error** is the default kind of Boot Error. It is thrown as soon as
an unmanaged error is detected and caught by the platform. It can occur at any
moment, as long as your deployment isn't *running* yet.

A Start Error makes the deployment fail instantly.

In most cases, a Start Error is caused by a misconfiguration of your
application, or by some unmanaged error/exception in your application's code.

#### Fixing Start Errors

It's very likely that an action on your side is required to fix the issue. The
deployment logs should help you identify the issue.

### Understanding Timeout Errors

When your application has a [`web` or a `tcp` process type]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}#special-process-types),
the process started in the corresponding container(s) **MUST** bind to the
provided network port (`PORT` environment variable) within a delay of 60
seconds. After this deadline, the platform considers the application has being
unreachable and throws a **Timeout Error**, causing the deployment to fail.

- If this situation arises after a restart or a scale operation, the platform
  automatically retries to start your container(s). After 20 unsuccessful
  attempts (with an exponential backoff strategy), the platform gives up.
  Note that your existing containers keep running during this time and after.

- If you are trying to deploy a new version of an already running application,
  this new deployment is considered a failure but the previous version of your
  application keeps running.

- Conversely, if this is a very first deployment, the platform does not make
  any attempt to recover from the error. The deployment fails with a
  **timeout-error** status, letting you know that your application didn't
  bind to `PORT` soon enough.

{% note %}
  A Timeout Error can only occur if you have a `web` or a `tcp` process type,
  which is very likely.
{% endnote %}

#### Fixing Timeout Errors

To fix a Timeout Error, make sure:
- to bind to the provided network port, by using the `PORT` environment
  variable.
- to listen on `0.0.0.0` and not on `127.0.0.1`.
- that your application is starting quickly enough.

You may need to edit your
[Procfile]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}) to fulfill these
requirements.

If your application doesn't need a `web` or `tcp` process type, make sure to
scale the unnecessary process type to zero.

### Understanding Hook Errors

If your application has a [`postdeploy` process type]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}#special-process-types),
the platform can throw a **Hook Error** if the post-deployment process fails.

- In such a case, the deployment fails with a **hook-error** status.
- If your application is already running, it keeps running.

{% note %}
  Hook Errors can only occur if you have a `postdeploy` process type.
{% endnote %}

#### Fixing Hook Errors

Hook Errors are generally caused by an error in your codebase or by some
misconfiguration. To recover from it, we first advise to investigate the logs
of your failed deployment to understand the root cause. After fixing it,
trigger a new deployment by pushing your updated code to Scalingo.


## Understanding Runtime Errors

**Runtime Errors** are errors that happen during the execution of the process.
Per definition, they can only occur when your container has reached its
*running* state (which means your deployment is considered successful by the
platform).

Unfortunately, and even if it has reached this state, unexpected errors can
still lead your application to crash.

The most common causes are:

- Incompatible dependencies
- Segfault of a library/runtime
- Configuration issues
- Bugs in your application code
- Uncaught exception in your code (especially with non-compiled languages)
- Unsufficient resources
- Temporary error/unavailability of an external resource

A Runtime Error can have several consequences, depending on the severity of the
error and the impact it has on your application:

- Reduced Performances: slow response time typically result in poor user
  experience.
- Downtime: the unavailability of your application, even if temporary, can have
  a significant impact on business operations.
- Data loss, or Corrupt Data: losing strategic data can have serious
  consequences for your organization or for your users/customers, especially in
  an HDS context.
- Security Risks: runtime errors can sometimes introduce security risks,
  especially if your application is too verbose. This can lead to sensitive
  data leak and further exploitation.

### Mitigating and Preventing Runtime Errors

The very first step to take to mitigate the consequences of a Runtime Error is
to ensure that you have regular, tested backups (for databases, this feature is
included in all our *business* plans) and to setup some
[redundancy]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-scaling %}#redundancy).

Additionally, we generally advise to have a disaster recovery plan in place.
This plan should ideally outline the actions to be taken in the event of such a
failure. It may include procedures and step by step guides to identify and
resolve the encountered error.

We also recommend to regularly check the application's health. This can be
done by checking the metrics, analyzing the logs, or setting up automated
anomaly detection. The goal is to identify and fix potential issues before they
occur.

Finally, we strongly encourage developers to test their code, to follow the
best practices and to conduct Q/A testings in a dedicated environment before
migrating to production.

### Recovering from a Runtime Error

When a Runtime Error occurs and leads to an application crash, the platform
automatically takes some remedial measures to try to recover from it. The very
first action consists in logging the crash event in your dashboard. Once done,
the platform uses its restart policy, described hereafter:

The platform maintains a crash counter for each running container. This crash
counter is set to zero by default.

When a container crashes for the first time (when its crash counter equals
zero), the platform sets the crash counter to one and then tries to restart the
container. This is done as soon as the failure is detected.

After a successful restart, the container enters a *warmup* period which always
lasts 10 minutes. From here, we distinguish two main cases:

1. The container successfully goes past the *warmup* period. In this case, the
   platform considers that the restart operation fixed the issue and thus
   resets the container's crash counter to zero.

2. The container crashes again during the *warmup* period. In this case, the
   platform immediately increments the crash counter by one.
   - If the crash counter value is less than 13, then the platform waits some
     time before restarting the container again. The duration of the waiting
     period is given by the following formula:
     `duration (minutes) = (crash counter value - 2) x 5`
   - It the crash counter value equals 2, 5 or 12, the platform sends a warning
     e-mail to the application's collaborators.
   - If the crash counter value reaches 13, which means the container keeps
     crashing after 12 delayed restarts, the platform gives up. The container
     is crashed and won't be restarted anymore, which mean your application
     may now be totally unavailable.

#### Fixing Runtime Errors

Besides the measures taken by the platform, we strongly advise you to carefully
investigate the logs of your crashing application as soon as possible. Once
your fix is ready, push your updated code to Scalingo to trigger a new
deployment, hopefully resolving the issue.

## Getting Notified When a Crash Occurs

By default, the platform only notifies the application's collaborator(s) when
a recurrent crash occurs (i.e. when an early Runtime Error keeps occuring, or
when a Timeout Error occurs).

You can modify this behavior by tweaking your
[Notifier's configuration]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-notification %}).
The *app_crashed*, *app_crashed_repeated* and the *app_deploy* events can be
particularily worth considering.
