---
index: 11
title: Procfile
tags: internals process types procfile heroku
modified_at: 2026-01-02 12:00:00
---

Procfile support is one of our
[compatibility layers]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-heroku-compatibility %})
that makes Scalingo compatible with Heroku.

## About the Procfile

The **Procfile** is a simple text file specifying how the platform should start
your application's container(s).

More precisely, it allows to declare the commands executed in the container(s)
on startup.

Each of these commands is associated to a **process type**, which is basically
a name that uniquely identifies the type of process.

When the platform starts a container for your application, it uses the process
type to know what command to execute in it, and it also marks the freshly
booted container as being of the specified process type, thereby creating a
kind of *link* between the container and its process type.

Consequently:
- a container belongs to exactly one process type.
- a process type can reference zero, one or multiple containers, depending on
  the scale factor.

Since process types are referencing containers, they are also used to manage
the resources consumed by your application:
- they allow to add or remove container(s) of the specified process type.
- they allow to set different plans for the containers, depending on the
  workload they have to handle.

You can define as many process types as you need for your application, **from
the same code base**.

Some common use cases for process types:
- define a process type called `web` to start a process handling HTTP requests.
- define a process type called `worker` to handle some asynchronous
  computation.
- define a `clock` process type to schedule some recurring jobs.
- ...

Example:

Let's say your application has a web frontend that handles HTTP requests and a
worker that does some heavy computing. They both share the same code base, but
they don't start the same way and they don't have the same computing power
requirements. In such a case, you'd have to instruct the platform to start two
process types, which must be defined in your project's Procfile:
- one called `web`, to instruct the platform how to start your web server (the
  frontend).
- another one, called `worker`, to instruct the platform how to start your...
  worker.

The `web` process type could be set to use an `L` plan (which means the
platform will run the corresponding command in an `L` container), whereas
the `worker` process type could be set to use a `2XL` plan.

Now, let's say that your single `worker` container is a bit under pressure.
Using the process type, you can instruct the platform to boot up a few more
containers to handle the load (in the command below, we tell the platform that
we want three `2XL` containers for the `worker` process type):

```bash
scalingo --app my-app scale worker:3:2XL
```

### Special Process Types

The `web`, `tcp` and `postdeploy` process types have a special meaning and are
thus reserved for specific use cases described below. The platform will only
use them for what they are designed for.

#### The `web` Process Type

The `web` process type defines how to start and run the container(s) handling
HTTP requests.

It's the only process type that can receive external HTTP requests from
[Scalingo's routers][public-routing]. Consequently, if your application has a
web server, it MUST have a `web` process type bound to `$PORT` to be publicly
reachable.

The `web` process type is often the only one required.

{% note %}
- Almost all our [buildpacks]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-intro %})
  define a default `web` process type so you don't have to care about it.
- The `web` process type is the only one that Scalingo scales to 1:M by
  default. If you don't need it, (for example, if your application is a
  [web-less application]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-web-less-app %}))
  you can scale it to 0 to avoid unwanted costs.
{% endnote %}

#### The `tcp` Process Type

The `tcp` process type defines how to start the
[TCP Gateway addon]({% post_url addons/tcp-gateway/2000-01-01-start %}).

#### The `postdeploy` Process Type

The `postdeploy` process type defines how to start the
[postdeploy hook]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}).


## Working With the Procfile

### Procfile Naming Convention

The Procfile is a plain text file that MUST be named `Procfile`. Even if it
uses the YAML syntax, there is **no extension**: no `.txt`, no `.yaml`, no
`.yml`. **Only `Procfile`**.

The file MUST live in your application's root directory or in `$PROJECT_DIR`,
if your [application code lies in a subdirectory of your repository]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-common-deployment-errors %}#project-in-a-subdirectory).

### Defining a Process Type

Each process type of the application is defined on its own, individual line,
with the following format:

```yaml
<process_type>: <command>
```

- `<process_type>` designates the name of the process type. It can only contain
  alphanumerics (`[A-Za-z0-9]+`). Except this rule, you are free to name your
  process type how you want: `heavyProcess`, `synchronizer`, `scheduler`,
  `console`, `trex`... These are all examples of valid process type names.
- `<command>` designates the command to run when a container of the specified
  type is booted up. It can be any Bash command. Using environment variables in
  the command is allowed, and even encouraged.

{% note %}
`<process_type>` must be unique in the Procfile. You cannot have, for example,
two `web` process types. This would result in an undefined behavior, and is
consequently strongly discouraged.
{% endnote %}

Here is an example of a valid Procfile defining two process types:
- one called `web`, defining how to start a Rails web server.
- another one called `worker`, defining how to start a container running
  Sidekiq.

Notice the use of the environment variables:

```yaml
web: bundle exec rails server -p $PORT -e $RAILS_ENV -b 0.0.0.0
worker: bundle exec sidekiq -e $RAILS_ENV
```

#### Defining a Complex Process Type

When you have more complex commands to run, don't hesitate to write a short
start script, for instance in `bin/start.sh`:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

if [ "$SOME_ENV" = "SOME_VALUE" ] ; then
  exec run_this_command -p $PORT
else
  exec run_that_other_command
fi
```

Then, in your `Procfile`, call this script directly:

```
web: bash bin/start.sh
```

### Starting and Stopping a Process Type

When starting or stopping a process type, you concretly instruct the platform
to create (and start) or stop (and destroy) all the container(s) referenced by
this process type. In fact, these operations are the same and consist in
**scaling** the process type, which can be done via the dashbord or via the
CLI.

All **new** process types are considered to be scaled to 0:M by default and,
hence, must be scaled to a value greater than 0 to be started by the platform.
The only exception is the `web` process type, which is scaled to 1:M by
default. **Don't forget to scale your process type to at least 1 to start it!**

Conversely, to stop a specific process type, scale it to 0. All existing
container(s) in charge of this specific type of process will be stopped and
destroyed by the platform.

### Removing a Process Type

Removing a process type from an application is done in 3 steps:
1. First scale the process type to be removed to 0. You can do this with the
   CLI or via the dashboard.
2. Edit your Procfile and remove the corresponding line. For example, if you
   want to remove the `scheduler` process type, locate the line starting with
   `scheduler` and remove it entirely.
3. Commit your changes and trigger a new deployment.

If you don't start by scaling down the process type you don't want anymore, you
will encounter the following error message in your application logs:

```
2022-01-26 10:46:17.855295004 +0000 UTC [worker-1] Task 'worker' has not been found in your 'Procfile'
```


## Developing With a Procfile

To reduce the gap between the development and the production environments, it
is important to execute the same processes in both environments.

Several tools exist to fulfill this need:
- [`foreman`](https://github.com/ddollar/foreman)
- [`honcho`](https://github.com/nickstenning/honcho)
- [`goreman`](https://github.com/mattn/goreman)
- [`Overmind`](https://github.com/DarthSim/overmind)

### Example Using `foreman`

`foreman` is a Ruby `gem` executing and displaying the output of all the
processes defined in your Procfile. You can install it with the following
command:

```bash
gem install foreman
```

And use it like this:

```bash
└> cat Procfile
web: bin/project
worker: bin/project -worker

└> foreman start
17:52:56 web.1    | started with pid 10663
17:52:56 worker.1 | started with pid 10664
17:52:56 web.1    | 2014/12/01 17:52:56 Listen HTTP requests on :5000
17:52:56 worker.1 | 2014/12/01 17:52:56 Starting Asynchronous worker
```

As you can see, `foreman` started a container for each process type defined in
the project's Procfile (one for the `web` process type and another one for the
`worker` process type).


[public-routing]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}
