---
title: Alerts About Application Metrics
nav: Alerts
modified_at: 2026-05-04 00:00:00
tags: app alert metrics
index: 42
---

Scalingo lets you create alerts based on an [application metric][metrics].
When the metric's value matches a configured condition for a selected duration,
Scalingo sends a notification to selected [app notifiers][notifiers].

## Creating Alerts

### From the Dashboard

- From your web browser, open your Scalingo dashboard.
- Select the app for which you want to create an alert.
- Click the **Settings** tab.
- In the settings menu, select **Alerts**.
- Click **Add**.
- Configure the trigger conditions, including the container type, metric, limit,
  comparison, and duration before trigger.
- Select the notifier(s) to use when the alert is triggered.
- Click **Finish**.

### Alert Requirements

An alert requires at least one notifier and a trigger condition:

- Container type: can be any container type of an application (e.g. web,
  clock...).
- Metric:
  1. CPU: percentage of CPU consumption
  1. RAM: percentage of memory consumption
  1. Swap: percentage of swap consumption
  1. Response time: 95th percentile of the requests response time
  1. 5xx errors: amount of HTTP errors (status code ranges from 500 to 599)
  1. RPM: requests per minute (RPM) received by your application.
  1. RPM per container: If your application is scaled on multiple containers,
     the RPM per container divides the RPM of the application by the amount of
     containers.
- Limit: any float value.
- Comparison: send the alert when the metric value is above or below the
  limit.
- Notifiers: list of [app notifiers][notifiers] the alert sends a notification
  to.
- Duration before trigger: send the alert when the metric value matches the
  configured condition for the specified duration. For example, specifying 4
  minutes means that the alert will be triggered if the condition is matched for
  4 consecutive minutes.

## Sending alert notifications

Alerts use the same notifiers as application events. An alert must use at least
one notifier. Each app has a default notifier.

For more information, please visit the page dedicated to [app notifiers][notifiers].

## Alert Events

Every time an alert is triggered, an event is created. This event appears on the application's
Activity. The user responsible for the operation is labeled `scalingo-platform`.

The alert-related event types are:

| Event Type            | Display Name    | Description                  |
| --------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `alert_added`         | Alert Added     | An alert has been configured |
| `alert_deleted`       | Alert Deleted   | An alert has been deleted    |
| `app_alert_triggered` | Alert triggered | An alert was triggered       |

[notifiers]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-notifiers %}
[metrics]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-metrics %}
