---
title: Application Tasks - One-Off Containers
nav: One-Off Containers
modified_at: 2023-02-22 00:00:00
tags: app jobs tasks
index: 14
---

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

## Introduction

When your app is deployed on our infrastructure, the `Procfile` of your project
is analyzed and the different way to start your project are registered and are
available for scaling in your dashboard.

For various reasons you may need to run other tasks in the environment of your
application (a database migration, Rails console, rake tasks, etc.). In such
case, Scalingo lets you run a task on a _copy_ of your production environment.

If you're looking to execute [scheduled tasks]({% post_url
platform/app/task-scheduling/2000-01-01-scalingo-scheduler %}), you'd better read [this
page]({% post_url platform/app/task-scheduling/2000-01-01-scalingo-scheduler %}).

{% note %}
The feature requires your workstation to allow connections to the **TCP port
5000**. Otherwise, you will experience timeouts during the connection attempts.
{% endnote %}


{% warning %}
You can run up to **10 one-off containers per application**. Also it is limited to **50 per account**.
If you need higher limitation you can reach us through the support bubble present on [your dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/).
{% endwarning %}

## Run an Attached One-Off

You may want to browse the files of your deployed application or execute a
simple task. This is achieved with the following command:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run bash
[10:45][osc-fr1] Scalingo:my-app ~ $ ls
app.js  cron.js  node_modules  package.json  package-lock.json  Procfile  public  README.md  scalingo.json  views
```

A one-off container is a copy of your production environment. After the
execution of the task, the environment is destroyed. Thus, do not expect any
created file to show up in your production environment. The production
environment is immutable.

A one-off container has, by default, access to 512 MiB memory (equivalent to a size M). If your one-off container needs more available memory, you can use the `--size` flag:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run --size XL /app/my_big_script.sh
```

A copy of your production environment means that you can access to the same
environment variables in the one-off and in the production. For example, you can
connect to your production database with the following commands:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run bash
[10:45][osc-fr1] Scalingo:my-app ~ $ dbclient-fetcher mongo
---> Download and extract the database CLI
[...]
[10:45][osc-fr1] Scalingo:my-app ~ $ mongo $SCALINGO_MONGO_URL
```

You can also add a shell script that is executed at each start of a new
one-off. You need to name it `.bashrc` and place it at the root of your
application.

Note that one-off containers are automatically killed after one hour of inactivity. In this context, _inactivity_ means that nothing is written on standard out or standard error. If you know that your one-off executes a script which lasts for more than an hour, make sure that it regularly writes on standard out or error to prevent it to be killed.

## Run a Detached One-Off

By default, one-off containers are started as __attached__ command, it means it
will only get started when a terminal interactively connect to it through the
one-off endpoint. Once attached, data should be sent to the one-off or from it,
otherwise the connection will be automatically closed after 30 minutes and the
container will be stopped. For long interactive jobs, make sure the process is
writing something to _stdout_ or _stderr_.

If the `--detached` option is set, the container will be started as a background
one-off container. In this case the container is started instantly, logs from
the job are aggregated to the total logs of the application.

Note that the option `--file` is incompatible with detached one-off.

{% warning %}
  A detached one-off is not stopped by the platform after 30 minutes of inactivity.
  Be sure that the detached one-off container will **not** execute indefinitely,
  or ensure it is stopped with the `scalingo one-off-stop` command.
{% endwarning %}

## Stop a One-Off

You should make sure the job ends at some point.
If it goes rogue, you can stop it with `one-off-stop` command.

```bash
scalingo --app my-app one-off-stop one-off-1234
```

## List all One-Offs

To figure out which containers (including attached and detached one-offs) are running,
you can use the `ps` command.
It displays then a list of all containers including the container name.

```bash
scalingo --app my-app ps
```

## Audit Logs

For a good traceability of all actions done to your application, we record all
actions done in your one-off containers: both the input and the output of the
executed commands. These logs are stored encrypted and are decrypted on the fly
when displayed. They are available in the Activity tab of the web dashboard.

## Examples

### Execute a `shell command`

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run ls
app  bin  config  config.ru  db  Gemfile  Gemfile.lock  lib  log  Procfile  public  Rakefile  test  tmp  vendor
```

Don't forget to quote command argument:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run 'ls -l'
total 40
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    84 Sep 23 07:42 app
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck   114 Sep 23 07:42 bin
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck   226 Sep 23 07:42 config
-rw-rw-r-- 1 appsdeck appsdeck   154 Sep 23 07:42 config.ru
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    48 Sep 23 07:42 db
-rw-rw-r-- 1 appsdeck appsdeck  2208 Sep 23 07:42 Gemfile
-rw-rw-r-- 1 appsdeck appsdeck 11085 Sep 23 07:42 Gemfile.lock
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    40 Sep 23 07:42 lib
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    38 Sep 23 07:42 log
-rw-rw-r-- 1 appsdeck appsdeck   137 Sep 23 07:42 Procfile
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck   220 Sep 23 07:42 public
-rw-rw-r-- 1 appsdeck appsdeck   249 Sep 23 07:42 Rakefile
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck   128 Sep 23 07:42 test
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    76 Sep 23 07:43 tmp
drwxrwxr-x 1 appsdeck appsdeck    56 Nov 13  2014 vendor
```

### Execute `bash`

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run bash
[10:45][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ ls
bin  Godeps  main.go  Procfile  README.md  templates
```

### Connecting to the database

{% include dbclient_fetcher.md %}

### Execute `bash` with custom environment variables

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run --env VAR1=VAL1 --env VAR2=VAL2 bash
[10:51][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ env | grep VAR
VAR1=VAL1
VAR2=VAL2
```

### Upload an archive and extract it on the server

* Use the `--file` flag to select the files to upload

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run --file ./dump.tar bash
Upload /tmp/job-file635294589/dump.tar to container.
```

{% warning %}
You can't upload files:
- either larger than 100 MiB;
- or to a detached container.
{% endwarning %}

* Uploaded files are located in the directory `/tmp/uploads`

```bash
[10:51][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ ls /tmp/uploads
dump.tar
```

* Extract the archive to `/tmp`

```bash
[10:51][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ tar -C /app -xvf /tmp/uploads/dump.tar
/tmp/dump
/tmp/dump/collection1.bson
/tmp/dump/collection1.metadata.json
/tmp/dump/collection2.bson
/tmp/dump/collection2.metadata.json
/tmp/dump/system.indexes.bson
/tmp/dump/system.users.bson
/tmp/dump/system.users.metadata.json
```

* Use these files with a script

```bash
[10:51][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ /app/script.sh /tmp/dump/*.json
```

### Install the Scalingo CLI

In order to install the [Scalingo CLI]({% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}) you need to start an attached one-off and execute the `install-scalingo-cli` script:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run bash
[10:51][osc-fr1] Scalingo ~ $ install-scalingo-cli
-----> Downloading Scalingo client...  DONE
-----> Extracting...   DONE
-----> Install scalingo client to /app/bin
-----> Installation completed, the command 'scalingo' is available.
```
