---
title: Nginx Buildpack for Custom Reverse Proxy
nav: Nginx Buildpack
modified_at: 2020-07-27 00:00:00
tags: buildpacks build nginx
---

Looking for a reverse proxy or an API gateway for your apps? This buildpack
might be the solution you are looking for. You first need to create a new
Scalingo application and configure it to make use of the Nginx buildpack.

## Purpose of This Buildpack

The [Nginx buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/nginx-buildpack) lets you
specify custom Nginx configuration. With this buildpack, you can provide a Nginx
configuration file with the rules you want to set.

## Setup This Buildpack

Configure your application to use the Nginx buildpack via the web dashboard or
the Scalingo CLI:

```console
$ scalingo create my-app
$ scalingo env-set BUILDPACK_URL=https://github.com/Scalingo/nginx-buildpack.git
```

## Configuration

The buildpack is expecting a configuration file at the root of the project which can be:

- `nginx.conf`: configuration file
- `nginx.conf.erb`: template to generate the configuration file
- `servers.conf.erb`: (optional) lets you configure your Nginx instance at the
  `http` level if required

If the template is found, it will be rendered as configuration file, it let you use environment
variables as in the following examples.

### Specify Nginx Version

By default we're installing the latest available version of Nginx, but if you want to use a specific
version, you can define the environment variable `NGINX_VERSION`:

```console
$ scalingo env-set NGINX_VERSION=1.14.2
```

{% include nginx_versions.md %}

### Discouraged Directives

The following directives should not be used in you configuration file:
`listen`, `access_log`, `error_log` and `server_name`.

### Configuration Examples

Use Nginx configuration: [nginx.org/en/docs](https://nginx.org/en/docs) to get
details about how to configure your app.

#### Split traffic to 2 APIs

This configuration example lets you split the traffic to two different
Scalingo applications depending on the path:

```nginx
location /api/v1 {
  proxy_pass <%= ENV["API_V1_BACKEND"] %>;
}

location /api/v2 {
  proxy_pass <%= ENV["API_V2_BACKEND"] %>;
}
```

This configuration must be written in the `nginx.conf.erb` file at the root of
your application.

#### Setup throttling with a `limit_req_zone`

This configuration example lets you throttle the traffic to a Scalingo
application:

```nginx
# instruction at the http level like
limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=one:10m rate=1r/s;

server {
    server_name localhost;
    listen <%= ENV['PORT'] %>;
    charset utf-8;
    location / {
        limit_req zone=one burst=5;
        proxy_pass http://<%= ENV["API_V1_BACKEND"] %>;
    }
}
```

This configuration must be written in the `servers.conf.erb` file at the root of
your application.

## Output

The application deployment output will look like:

```text
-----> Cloning custom buildpack: https://github.com/Scalingo/nginx-buildpack.git#master
-----> Bundling NGINX 1.10.1
```

## Multiple Configuration Files

You may want to use multiple configuration files in your application. This is
possible with the `NGINX_INCLUDES` environment variable:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app env-set NGINX_INCLUDES="./conf/nginx-1.conf ./conf/nginx-2.conf"
```
