---
title: Ruby
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2021-01-05 00:00:00
tags: ruby
index: 1
---

Ruby is officially supported by Scalingo. Furthermore, custom support is added
for the Rails framework in all its versions.

* [Getting Started with Rails]({% post_url languages/ruby/rails/2000-01-01-start %})

## Buildpack

The buildpack is based on Bundler and will install the dependencies defined in
the `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` of your project ([source of the
buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack)).

## Ruby application

Presence of a `Gemfile`

## Rack based application

Presence of a `config.ru`

### Rack environment

When a Rack application is detected, the following environment variable will
automatically be set by the platform:

* `RACK_ENV=production`

## Rails application

### Rails app detection

Scalingo automatically detects the use of Rails, whatever the version used. All Rails versions are supported.

Starting with Rails 5.1, `node` and `yarn` will be automatically installed if the gem `webpacker` is installed.

### Rails environment

When a Rails application is detected, the following environment variables will
automatically be set by the platform:

* `RACK_ENV=production`
* `RAILS_ENV=production`

## Bundler version

Our deployment system is automatically using the latest available bundler version.

* Bundler 1: **1.15.2**
* Bundler 2: **2.0.2**

If your application fails to boot with the following error logs:

```
Activating bundler (2.0.1) failed:
Could not find 'bundler' (2.0.1) required by your /app/Gemfile.lock.
```

It means you need to update bundler in your project:

```
$ gem update bundler
$ bundle update --bundler
$ git add Gemfile.lock
$ git commit -m "Update bundler to new version"
$ git push scalingo master
```

## Specifying a custom Ruby runtime

If your need to install a custom version of Ruby, you can achieve that by
specifying it in your Gemfile:

### Ruby MRI 2.5.5

```ruby
ruby "2.5.5"
```

### JRuby 2.0.0

```ruby
ruby "2.0.0", :engine => "jruby", :engine_version => "1.7.20"
```

## List of the compatible runtimes

Only last patch version of each major release is listed here, but other minor
version are also present if your require them for specific tests.

### MRI

* `2.7.1`
* `2.6.6`
* `2.5.8`
* `2.4.10`
* `2.3.8`  (stack `scalingo-14` only)
* `2.2.10` (stack `scalingo-14` only)

## Ruby application web server

Ruby contains a default application web server named `WEBrick`. As it is always
present, most web framework use it by default. It's good enough in development,
but it has never been thought to be a production server.

## Do not use WEBrick

WEBrick has the following characteristics:

* Single threaded
* Single process

It can't handle several request in parallel, they are all in a single request
queue. As a result, very poor performance can be expected. To get the best of
your containers, you need to use a real production-ready application server.

## Using Puma as a production server

To handle several requests in parallel, we recommend [puma](https://puma.io).
To use it, add it as dependency in your `Gemfile`:

```text
gem 'puma'
```

And configure how to launch your app by defining a `Procfile`:

```yaml
web: bundle exec puma -C config/puma.rb
```

The configuration file looks like the following:

```ruby
workers Integer(ENV['WEB_CONCURRENCY'] || 2)
threads_count = Integer(ENV['MAX_THREADS'] || 5)
threads threads_count, threads_count

preload_app!

rackup      DefaultRackup
port        ENV['PORT']     || 3000
environment ENV['RACK_ENV'] || 'development'

on_worker_boot do
  # Worker specific setup for Rails 4.1+
  ActiveRecord::Base.establish_connection
end
```

Thus you can change the global settings by modifying the environment
variables `WEB_CONCURRENCY` and `MAX_THREAD` and restarting your app.
