---
title: Using Sidekiq to Handle Background Tasks
modified_at: 2016-05-02 10:39:00
categories: languages ruby
tags: ruby gem async jobs sidekiq
---

## What is `sidekiq`?

Sidekiq let you run background tasks with your Rails application. It uses a
Redis database as a queue to process background jobs.

## Requirements

Your application should have access to a Redis instance, like the one provided by
the [Redis Addon]({% post_url databases/2000-01-01-scalingo-redis-addon %})

## Adding `sidekiq` to your Project

To get started using Sidekiq, you need to configure your application.

```ruby
gem 'sidekiq'
```

Then, run `bundle install` to install the gem.

That's it your application is ready, you can find more information on their
[Github page](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq)

## Configure Sidekiq

Create a file in `config/initializers/sidekiq.rb` with the following content:

```ruby
Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
  config.redis = { url: (ENV["REDIS_URL"] || 'redis://localhost:6379/0'), namespace: "sidekiq-#{Rails.env}" }
end

Sidekiq.configure_client do |config|
  config.redis = { url: (ENV["REDIS_URL"] || 'redis://localhost:6379/0'), namespace: "sidekiq-#{Rails.env}" }
end
```

These instruction will configure Sidekiq to use your local database when
working locally, and configure the redis instance from the environment variable
`REDIS_URL` when used in production, deployed on the platform.

## Adding 'worker' container type in your Procfile

Once `sidekiq` has been installed, you need to add a new type of containers
in your application which will actually start sidekiq. Add the following
line to the [**Procfile**]({% post_url internals/2014-12-01-procfile %}) of
your project. Create the file if it doesn't exist.

```yaml
worker: bundle exec sidekiq
```

All you have to do now is to write your workers by following [Sidekiq
documentation](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq) and deploy your
code:

```bash
git add Gemfile Gemfile.lock Procfile
git commit -m "Add Sidekiq"
git push scalingo master
```

The process won't be started directly, but by going to the dashboard of your
application or by running the `scalingo ps` command, you'll see that's the new
container type is present, just scale it to 1 to start it.
