---
title: TCP Gateway Addon
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2026-01-02 12:00:00
tags: tcp load balancer addon custom
---

## Introduction

By default, Scalingo will only let you run applications that communicate via
HTTP or HTTPS. Sometimes this is not enough and you need to have applications
that can accept raw TCP connections.

This addon lets you deploy applications that can accept raw TCP connections.

## Setup of the Addon

### Provision the Addon

First, you need to add the TCP addon to your application. This can be done
through the dashboard on the addons section of your app under the `Network`
category.

### Setup Configuration

In order to use the Scalingo TCP addon, you need to define a new container
type. This can be done in your [Procfile]({% post_url
platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}).

Here is a sample Procfile for a Node.js application:

```
web: npm start
tcp: npm run start-tcp
```

### Contact your Application

When your application starts, a `PORT` environment variable is defined in your
container. Your application must listen on this port in order to be accessible
from the outside. This is the exact same mechanism and the exact same
environment variable that the one used to expose a HTTP server in a `web`
container.

Once up and running your application will be accessible at the URL defined by
the `TCP_URL` environment variable.

This `TCP_URL` looks like:

```
tcp://tcp-1.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:20003
```

You can find this environment variable on our dashboard or by using our CLI:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app env-get TCP_URL
```

This URL is also accessible on the addon dashboard.

{% warning %}
  Your app must bind on the port provided by the `PORT` environment variabe and not the port defined in the `TCP_URL` env variable. The `TCP_URL` is only here to display the public facing URI your TCP clients must use. Our platform will automatically do the TCP load balancing between the traffic coming from `TCP_URL` and your app containers (the ones defined by the line `tcp` in your Procfile).
{% endwarning %}

If you need to contact a `tcp` container from a `web` container, you must also
use this URL, there is no direct link between your containers, every
communication must pass via our load balancer. It's the exact same thing if you
need to contact a `web` container from a `tcp` container, you must use the
public URL of the `web` container.

{% note %}
  Your TCP containers might be restarted at any moment by our scheduler, this
  is done with 0 downtime, but the connections to the old containers are
  dropped. Hence your client must contain a retry policy in case a connection
  is dropped.
{% endnote %}

### Application Restart and New Deployments

When a new version of the application is pushed or when the `tcp` containers
are restarted, newly created `tcp` containers are started. TCP handshakes are then
sent to your applications. Once a TCP handshake is successful, newly incoming
TCP connections will be sent to this container and old containers will receive
a `SIGTERM` signal, notifying them to stop, see [container-management]({% post_url
platform/internals/2000-01-01-container-management %}) for more informations.

The server application is responsible for closing opened connections with its
clients once the signal `SIGTERM` is caught. If the
server does not close the connections, the new rules will be updated and next
packets will be dropped causing the clients to timeout.

## Load Balancing

If you have multiple `tcp` containers running, Scalingo distributes connections
to those containers. Our load balancer distributes connections during the TCP
handshake. When established, the communication is always routed to the same
server.

## gRPC

As described in [the routing documentation]({% post_url
platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}#http2), application nodes
cannot receive HTTP/2 traffic. Thus, you need to deploy your application using the
TCP Gateway:

```
tcp: <run your grpc app>
```

Your gRPC server will be accessible at the address in `TCP_URL`.

Don’t forget to remove unused web / worker nodes on your app.

## Rate Limiting

There's no rate limiting in place. It may be put in place later.

## Limitations

To be able to load balance TCP connections, connections are proxied to your
containers via NAT. This process comes with a downside: the TCP source IP needs
to be replaced by our front servers internal IP, this mean that a `tcp`
container wont be able to access the real client IP. Thus, the device
identification should be part of the protocol you designed over the TCP
connection.

## Samples

You can find a sample Node.js application that uses this addon to expose a
MQTT server built with Mosca
[on GitHub](https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-node-mosca).
