---
title: Get Started with Django on Scalingo
nav: Get Started
modified_at: 2024-02-01 15:00:00
tags: python django tutorial getting-started-tutorial
index: 1
---

{% include info_tutorial_requirements.md %}

## Create Your Application and Databases on Scalingo

{% note %}
  You can also use our web dashboard to achieve this operation
{% endnote %}

```bash
$ scalingo create myapp
```

* Go on the [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps) of your application.
* Select the __Addons__ category
* Choose the database you want to use PostgreSQL®, MySQL®...

## Initialize Your Application locally

On your computer, start a Django website.

```bash
# Create your project
mkdir my-project
cd my-project

# use pipenv to handle dependancies (recommanded for python buildpack)
pip install --user pipenv

# Install Django and other useful packages:
pipenv install django django-environ psycopg gunicorn dj-static

# enter the virtual environment
pipenv shell

# Initialize Django project, this command will
# create a manage.py file and a myapp directory
django-admin startproject myapp .
```

{% note %}
  If you've selected MySQL database instead of PostreSQL,
  do not install psycopg but mysqlclient instead.

  `pipenv install django mysqlclient gunicorn ...`
{% endnote %}

{% note %}
  Pipenv is the preferred way to manage dependencies. It adds Pipfile and Pipfile.lock
  files, therefore deployment system considers your application as a Python app.

  [Please refer to Python buildpack for more information on this
  subject]({% post_url languages/python/2000-01-01-start %})
{% endnote %}

## Define How To Start Your Application

You need to specify how to start the applicative server, and define it to display logs
on `stdout` to fit the [12-factor](https://12factor.net/) principles.

This is achieved by creating a file named `Procfile` at the root of the project with a web entry.

Scalingo handles WSGI and ASGI server :

```yaml
web: gunicorn myapp.wsgi --log-file -
```

```yaml
web: gunicorn myapp.asgi --worker-class=uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker --log-file -
```

{% note %}
  For more details, check the documentation about [Procfile]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}).
{% endnote %}

### Start script

A better practice is to use a start script, usually stored in the `bin` directory. This
gives you more flexibility on how to start your app.

First, add `bin/start.sh`, with:

```sh
#!/bin/bash

gunicorn myapp.wsgi --log-file -
```

Then update `Procfile`:

```yaml
web: bash bin/start.sh
```

### Using Daphne

It is also possible to use [Daphne](https://pypi.org/project/daphne/) as an ASGI server. You can update the `bin/start.sh` script described in the previous section to use Daphne to start the application:

```sh
#!/bin/bash

daphne --bind 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT myapp.asgi:application --proxy-headers
```

## Application Configuration

The configuration of the application has to be done through the environment
variables, no credentials should be present statically in the code. It is
usually a bad practice. It's also a recommandation of the [12-factor](https://12factor.net/) principles.

We use django-environ to ease this part.

The configuration file in our example is located at `myapp/settings.py`.

### Ensure That the Base Directory of the Application Is Defined

{% note %}
  This instruction may be already set according to your Django version
{% endnote %}

Add (if not already set) the following definition after the top comment header
of the `myapp/settings.py` file:

```python
import environ
from pathlib import Path

root = environ.Path(__file__) - 2  # get root of the project
# Build paths inside the project like this: BASE_DIR / 'subdir'.
BASE_DIR = Path(root())

# handle .env file for local development
env_path = BASE_DIR / ".env"
if env_path.is_file():
    environ.Env.read_env(str(env_path))  # reading .env file

# use an environment variable to set a secret and fetch it with django-environ
# SECURITY WARNING: keep the secret key used in production secret!
SECRET_KEY = env.str("SECRET_KEY")
DEBUG = env.bool("DEBUG", default=False)
```

{% note %}
   [How to set environment on Scalingo]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %})
   [More info on Django-environ](https://django-environ.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
{% endnote %}

{% note %}
   For local development, you need to add a .env file at the root of the app with:
   ```
   SECRET=notssecretkeybutitsonlyforlocalstuff
   DEBUG=1
   ```
{% endnote %}

### Configure the Database Access

Still in the `myapp/settings.py`, replace:

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
        'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
    }
}
```

With:

```python
DATABASES = {
    "default": env.db("DATABASE_URL", default=f"file:///{BASE_DIR / 'db.sqlite3'}"),
}
```

This has no effect on the default behavior. If no `DATABASE_URL` has been set,
the application will fallback on your development backend, sqlite3. However, we
strongly advise you to use the same database in development and in production to
ensure bug free migrations.

### Static File Serving

In your settings configuration file `myapp/settings.py`:

```python
STATIC_ROOT = 'staticfiles'
STATIC_URL = '/static/'

STATICFILES_DIRS = (
    os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'static'),
)
```

In the `myapp/wsgi.py` file, replace

```python
from django.core.wsgi import get_wsgi_application
application = get_wsgi_application()
```

With

```python
from django.core.wsgi import get_wsgi_application
from dj_static import Cling

application = Cling(get_wsgi_application())
```

`Cling` is part of the `dj_static` module and is designed to serve static files.

If you don't need to serve static files, you can setup the following
environment variable:

```bash
DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC=1
```

It will be taken into account during the next deployment of your application.

### Configuration of Allowed Hosts

By default, Django will only serve requests coming for specific domain names to
prevent HTTP Host header attacks. Without specifying these allowed domains, you
will get the following error:

```
> Invalid HTTP_HOST header: '<domain>'. You may need to add '<domain>' to ALLOWED_HOSTS.
```

Consequently, you need to modify the `settings.py` file. Replace this static
array:

```python
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ["localhost"]
```

By this dynamic block reading the environment:

```python
ALLOWED_HOSTS = env.list("ALLOWED_HOSTS", default=["127.0.0.1", "localhost"])
```

Then change the environment variable of your application with a coma-separated
list of domains which will be used to access the app.

```bash
scalingo --app app-name env-set ALLOWED_HOSTS=app-name.osc-fr1.scalingo.io,example.com
```

## Deploy your application

Your app is almost done, now we need to ship it. Django requires that severals
operation are done each time we deploy the app. In this chapter we will see how
we can do that on Scalingo.

In Python buildpack, there are 3 hooks we can use: pre-compile, post-compile
and [postdeploy]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}). 
Each is triggered at a specific time and will have some use.

### Automatic Database Migrations

If you use Django's ORM and migrations files, you want to use postdeploy hook
to trigger the migrate command.

Database migrations in Django are separated in two steps:

- `python manage.py makemigrations`, which creates migrations files from model
  change
- `python manage.py migrate`, which applies the migration file to the related
  database

Because `makemigrations` modifies the source code, this command must be done on
your computer, and the created migration files committed to Git. This is not a
command to execute in your postdeploy hook.

The `migrate` command is the one to execute to apply to migrations to your
database. You can add it to your `Procfile` like this:

First create a file `bin/post_deploy.sh` with:

```bash
#!/bin/sh

# Execute structure migrations
python manage.py migrate users
python manage.py migrate
```

After, activate the hook by adding following line in `Procfile`:

```bash
postdeploy: bash bin/post_deploy.sh
```

This triggers a one-off container just after finishing compiling
but before replacing current app (if any were running when triggering
the deployment).

{% note %}
  More information in [postdeploy hook section]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %})
{% endnote %}

### Collect static

Previous hook is not good for collect static because the script is
run in a one-off which is a copy of the final container. Therefore all
files manipulation would be available only on the one-off and not
in the actual container which will serve web request.

To trigger script on the actual container, you will need to use
post-compile hook.

Add a file `bin/post_compile` with (note the missing .sh extension!):

```bash
#!/bin/sh

export PYTHONPATH=/build/${REQUEST_ID}/.apt/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/:${PYTHONPATH}

# collect static
python manage.py collectstatic --noinput
```


### Compile `.mo` Message Translation File

If you are using `compilemessages` command to generate `.mo` file for gettext
translations, that command needs to run at the same stage as collect static.

Add following line to `bin/post_compile` file:

```bash
python manage.py compilemessages
```

## Save Your App With Git and Automatic Deployment

### Setup `.gitignore`

You don't want to keep track of everything on your version control system. To
prevent such files to be added to Git, create the file `.gitignore` at the root
of your project with the following content:

```text
venv
*.pyc
staticfiles
.env
```

### Commit Your Application

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Init Django application"
```

### Deploy Your Application

```bash
git remote add scalingo git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:myapp.git
git push scalingo master
```

Note that the remote URL depends on the region of your application. You can get
it using our CLI with:

```bash
scalingo --app myapp git-show
```

Each time you push on the `master` branch, it should trigger a deployment job on Scalingo.

{% note %}
  Please see [Continuous Integration section]({% post_url platform/deployment/2000-01-01-deploy-with-git %}) for more information on git.
{% endnote %}


## Access Your Application

The URL is displayed at the end of the deployment logs. It won't change.

```bash
…
Waiting for your application to boot...
<-- https://myapp.osc-fr1.scalingo.io -->
```
