---
title: Get Started with Ruby on Rails on Scalingo
nav: Get Started
tags: ruby rails tutorial getting-started-tutorial
index: 3
---

## Initialize your application

```bash
$ rails new my-app

#
# It creates files and run 'bundle install'
#

$ git init
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Base rails application"
```

## Create your application on Scalingo

{% note %}
You can also use our web dashboard to achieve this operation
{% endnote %}

```bash
$ scalingo create my-app
Git repository detected: remote scalingo added
→ 'git push scalingo master' to deploy your app
```

## Provision and configure your database

* Go on the [dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps) of your application.
* Select the __Addons__ category
* Choose the database you want to use

### PostgreSQL

Add the gem `pg` to your `Gemfile`

### MySQL

Add the gem `mysql` to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem 'mysql2', '~> v0.3.18'
```

Then set the following environment variable:

* `DATABASE_URL`
  → Copy the value of `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` and replace 'mysql://' by 'mysql2://'

{% include info_environment_how_to.md %}

### MongoDB

To use a MongoDB database your need to add the gem `mongoid` to your `Gemfile`.
Please refer to [this guide]({% post_url
languages/ruby/2000-01-01-mongoid %}).

## Setup your application logging

By default, Rails applications don't write their logs to STDOUT but in a custom
file. We expect your application to write all its logging entries to STDOUT
and STDERR according to their nature, in accordance to the
[12-factor](http://12factor.net).

* Add the following gem in your `Gemfile`: `gem "rails_12factor"`

The `rails_12factor` gem includes two gems, one of them is
`rails_stdout_logging`. Thanks to it, the application won't write the logs to
the `log/production.log` file but directly on the standard output.

Why writing the logs to the standard output

It is a requirement to let the platform aggregate them and let you browse your
application logs in the dashboard or with Scalingo's command line interface.

## Serving static assets

The second gem included in `rails_12factor` is `rails_serve_static_asset`. It
includes a middleware provided by `sprocket` to serve static files located in
the `/public` directory of your project.

In a more traditional way to host a Ruby on Rails application, assets would not
be served by the application server, but by a proxy web server (Apache/Nginx
for instance), but you don't need that on Scalingo.

{% note %}
Protip: use CDN to host your assets, it will spare your containers which will
be used for more useful requests.
{% endnote %}

## Finalize and deploy

```bash
$ bundle install
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Configure application for Scalingo"
$ git push scalingo master
```

## Access your application

```bash
…
Waiting for your application to boot...
<-- https://my-app.scalingo.io -->
```

A new application will render a 404 error `The page you were looking for doesn't exist.`,
but it's expected. There is nothing in the project, it's time to build your product!

## Specifying a custom Node.js runtime

Latest version of Rails application also use Node.js in case ExecJS or
Webpacker is detected. The Node.js version built inside the Ruby buildpack is
frozen. It is 6.11 at the time of writing.

If you ever need to specify a different version of Node.js, you need to setup
the [multi buildpacks]({% post_url
platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi %})), in order to use both the Node.js and the Ruby buildpack. The content of your `.buildpacks` file must respect the following order between the buildpacks:

```text
https://github.com/Scalingo/nodejs-buildpack.git
https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack.git
```

You also need to remove the file `bin/yarn` if it already exists.

You eventually need to specify the [Node.js version]({% post_url
languages/nodejs/2000-01-01-start %}#specifying-a-nodejs-version) in your `package.json`.
