---
title: Go
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2026-06-16 00:00:00
tags: go
index: 1
---

The Go programming language is supported.

## Go Versions

### Availability

The following versions of Go are available:

| Go Version  | `scalingo-22` ([EOL]) | `scalingo-24`   | `scalingo-26`   |
| ----------: | --------------------: | --------------: | --------------: |
| **`1.26`** | up to `1.26.4`         | up to `1.26.4`  | up to `1.26.4`  |
| **`1.25`** | up to `1.25.11`        | up to `1.25.11` | up to `1.25.11` |
| **`1.24`** | up to `1.24.13`        | up to `1.24.13` | up to `1.24.13` |

The default Go version on all stacks is the latest `go1.25` version.

{% include scalingo_22_deprecation_note.md %}

### Dependencies Installation

Scalingo installs the dependencies Go application using [Go Modules]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-gomod %}).

#### Private Dependencies

Here is how to use a dependency in a private repository for your application.

The platform looks for environment variables that follow the following pattern:
`GO_GIT_CRED__<PROTOCOL>__<HOSTNAME>`.  Any periods (`.`) in the `HOSTNAME` must
be replaces with double underscores (`__`).

The value of a matching var will be used as the username. If the value contains
a ":", the value will be split on the ":" and the left side will be used as the
username and the right side used as the password. When no password is present,
`x-oauth-basic` is used.

The following example will cause git to use the `FakePersonalAccessTokenHere` as
the username when authenticating to `github.com` via `https`:

```console
$ scalingo env-set GO_GIT_CRED__HTTPS__GITHUB__COM=FakePersoalAccessTokenHere
```

### Defining a `Procfile`

```yaml
web: <base package name>
```

Example if your package is `github.com/user/example`:

```yaml
web: example
```

### Pre/Post Compile Hooks

If the file `bin/go-pre-compile` exists and is executable, it will be executed before compilation.

Likewise, if the file `bin/go-post-compile` exists and is executable, it will be executed after the compilation.

Because the buildpack installs compiled executables to `bin`, the
`go-post-compile` hook can be written in Go if it's installed by the specified
[`<packagespec>`]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-gomod %}).

## Memory Management

Go applications can use `GOMEMLIMIT` to define a soft memory limit for the Go
runtime. In a Scalingo container, set it explicitly when you need tighter memory
control:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app env-set GOMEMLIMIT=400MiB
```

Choose a value lower than `CONTAINER_MEMORY`, because `GOMEMLIMIT` is not a hard
limit for the full process memory. For more details, refer to the
[Go runtime environment variables][go-runtime-env].

## Buildpack

More information at [https://github.com/Scalingo/go-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/go-buildpack).


[EOL]: {% post_url platform/internals/stacks/2000-01-01-overview %}#lifecycle
