---
title: Manage Go dependencies with Go Modules
nav: Manage dependencies with go.mod
modified_at: 2022-06-10 00:00:00
tags: go dependencies
index: 2
---

This tutorial explains how to deploy a Go application which is using Go Modules to manage its
dependencies. To handle the version management of the dependencies, please follow [the offical Go
Modules guide](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules), this page will focus on the deployment of
the app. Go Modules can be used starting with Go 1.11.

## Configuration

The `go.mod` file allows for arbitrary comments. This buildpack utilizes [build
constraint](https://golang.org/pkg/go/build/#hdr-Build_Constraints) style
comments to track Scalingo build specific configuration which is encoded in the
following way:

- `// +scalingo install <packagespec>[, <packagespec>]`: a space separated list of
  the packages you want to install. If not specified, this defaults to `.`.
  Other common choices are: `./cmd/...` (all packages and sub packages in the
  `cmd` directory) and `./...` (all packages and sub packages of the current
  directory). The exact choice depends on the layout of your repository though.

  Example: `// +scalingo install ./cmd/... ./special`

- `// +scalingo goVersion <version>`: the major version of go you would like
  Scalingo to use when compiling your code. If not specified, it uses the
  version specified in the `go.mod` file. Exact versions (ex `go1.16.1`) can
  also be specified if needed, but is not generally recommended. Since Go
  doesn't release `.0` versions, specifying a `.0` version will pin your code
  to the initial release of the given major version (ex `go1.16.0` == `go1.16`
  without auto updating to `go1.16.1` when it becomes available).

  Example: `// +scalingo goVersion go1.11`

If a top level `vendor` directory exists and the `go.sum` file has a size
greater than zero, `go install` is invoked with `-mod=vendor`, causing the build
to skip downloading and checking of dependencies. This results in only the
dependencies from the top level `vendor` directory being used.
