---
title: Routing
modified_at: 2020-03-25 00:00:00
tags: internals reverse-proxy routing http https timeout websocket
index: 3
---

## Requests scheduling

Each of our front web servers is applying a strict round-robin scheduling over
the different containers of your application.

Our frontend servers also include a quarantine mechanism: if one of your
containers unexpectedly cut a connection, it is moved into quarantine. No more
request will be routed to this container. Our frontend servers will regularly
try to reach the application with an exponential backoff. Whenever the container
successfully answers, it gets out of quarantine and start receiving requests
again.

## Headers

* `X-Forwarded-For`: IP from the end user
* `X-Real-Ip`: IP from the end user
* `X-Forwarded-Proto`: Either `http` or `https`
* `X-Forwarded-Port`: Either 80 or 443
* `X-Request-ID`: UUID to identify the request, will be set if not existing
* `X-Scalingo-Error`: detailed error message when an error occurred on the router

_The HTTP library/framework you're using may downcase all the header names, be cautious_

Guide: [Detecting HTTPS requests]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-detecting-https-requests %})

## Max Headers Size

The headers size limit is set to **32kB**. This limit is for the entire header section of the request. In addition of the global headers size limit, there is also a limit of **8kB** for a single header.

## HTTPS support

[HTTPS support]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-ssl %}) is included by default. It is managed by application. When a custom domain name is added, our [Let's Encrypt integration]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-ssl %}#automatic-https-certificate-with-lets-encrypt) will generate a valid certificate for this domain name to get valid HTTPS automatically.

## Uploads - max request size

The request size limit is set to **75MB**, if you've bigger file to upload, you should consider
using a third-party storage facility like Amazon S3 (or any other provider) and upload
files directly to it (with signed-URL for instance).

## Long running connections - SSE - Websockets

Long running connections and websockets are completely supported, but they are under
the same constraint timeout as any other kind of request.

## HTTP/2

HTTP/2 is enabled by default for all applications. If the client supports it
and is reaching the servers with HTTPS, the connection will be upgraded to
HTTP/2 by our routing nodes.

## Sticky Sessions

Sticky sessions can be enabled per app in the *Routing Settings* of the
dashboard. It is enabled by default for Meteor applications, browse to its
[dedicated page]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-sticky-sessions %}) to get
a deeper insight of its implementation.

## Timeouts

Your application has to accept the connection within the 30 seconds and has 30
seconds to send the first data to the client in the 30 seconds. If one of these
conditions is not respected, our servers will return a `504 Gateway Timeout`
error to the end user:

* Connection timeout: 30s
* Read timeout: 30s

These rules also apply to the long running connections like websockets. Ensure
your application is sending at least one ping every 29 seconds to keep the connection
open, otherwise it will be stopped.

## Requests Queue

Each router of the infrastructure is keeping a local request queue for each
application running on the platform. For each application, this queue is
limited at 50 requests per `web` container. If the queue is full and a new
request is received the router will return `503 Service Unavailable`

For instance, if your application is using 2 containers of type `web`, our
proxies will accept to queue up to 100 requests and will reject following
requests.

When requests are being queued, it means the application is not able to cope
with the amount of received requests, in this case, it does not worth adding
more requests to be handled. It often means your application is not well sized
compare to the traffic your instances need to handle. Either your application
should have more `web` containers, or it should be optimized to respond to
requests faster.
