---
title: Overview
section_title: "Getting Started with ELK"
modified_at: 2025-12-25 12:00:00
tags: elk tutorial logstash elasticsearch kibana log
index: 1
---

The Elastic Stack (formerly known as the ELK Stack) is a powerful collection of
softwares that lets you collect data from any source using any format. It gives
you tools to search, visualize and analyze these data in real time.

The ELK stack is based on three major components **Elasticsearch**®,
**Logstash** and **Kibana**.

Most of the time, logs are only relevant for a short period of time. It is
generally a good idea to archive or remove them after this short period to keep
indices as light and fast as possible.

To cover this need, we suggest to add a fourth component named **Curator** to
your ELK stack.

Here is a diagram showing the main principles of the ELK stack architecture:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/diagram_documentation_elk_stack.svg" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}


## Planning your Deployment

Most of the time, logs are only relevant for a short period of time. It is
generally a good idea to archive or remove them after this short period to keep
indices as light and fast as possible.

To cover this need, we suggest to complete your ELK stack with a fourth
component, in addition to the three standard ones described above:

**Curator**: a tool that helps curating and managing ElasticSearch's indices.
It is especially useful to manage indices lifecycles so that old logs are
automatically removed from your database.

{% warning %}
Due to [Elasticsearch license change](https://www.elastic.co/fr/pricing/faq/licensing),
we are currently unable to provide versions of Elasticsearch higher than
`7.10.2`.\\
Consequently, and according to the [compatibility matrix](https://www.elastic.co/fr/support/matrix#matrix_compatibility)
provided by Elastic.co, we strongly advise to stick to these versions:

   | App      | Min. Version | Max. Version | Default  |
   | -------- | -----------: | -----------: | -------: |
   | Logstash | `6.8.0`      | `7.17.21`    | `6.8.21` |
   | Kibana   | `7.10.0`     | `7.10.2`     | `7.10.2` |
   | Curator  | `7.0.0`      | `7.0.1`      | `7.0.1`  |

Using our repos guaranteed that these constraints are respected.
{% endwarning %}


## Planning your Deployment

- Logstash and Kibana both require their own container(s). We will consequently
  need two apps.

- To keep things simple, we will deploy Elasticsearch as an addon attached to
  Logstash.

- Still to keep things as simple as possible, we will deploy Curator besides
  Logstash.

- Choosing the appropriate Elasticsearch plan strongly depends on your needs.
  In this guide, we will start with a Starter 512M plan. Please keep in mind that
  you can change for a more powerful plan later if need be.

- Logstash requires quite a lot of RAM to run properly. We recommend to deploy
  at least one L container to host it.


## Deploying

Please refer to our dedicated pages:

- To [deploy Elasticsearch® and Logstash]({% post_url platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-elk/2000-01-01-logstash %})
- To [deploy Kibana]({% post_url platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-elk/2000-01-01-kibana %})
- To [deploy Curator]({% post_url platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-elk/2000-01-01-curator %})
- To learn more about [Elasticsearch® by Scalingo]({% post_url databases/elasticsearch/2000-01-01-start %})
