---
title: Curator
modified_at: 2024-06-03 12:00:00
tags: elk tutorial logstash elasticsearch kibana log
index: 4
---

## Deploying Curator

{% warning %}
Curator version MUST be aligned with the ElasticSearch version. At Scalingo, we
deploy ElasticSearch 7.x per default, which means you would have to use Curator
7.x to ensure compatibility.
{% endwarning %}

### Installing Curator

Since logs are only relevant for a short period of time, it is current
practice to remove logs that are too old to be relevant. This is done to
reduce the load on the database and limit the disk usage.

This is where
[Curator](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/curator/7.0/index.html)
is needed. This project is designed to let you manage your indices life cycle.

Curator can be installed on the existing Logstash application
`my-awesome-logstash`. As Curator is written in Python, you have to modify your
`.buildpacks` file to add the Python buildpack, so that it ends up like this:

```
https://github.com/Scalingo/buildpack-jvm-common
https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack
https://github.com/Scalingo/logstash-buildpack
```

To instruct the Python buildpack to install Curator and its dependencies,
create a file named `requirements.txt` at the root of your application:

```
elasticsearch-curator==7.0.1
```

### Configuring Curator

Next step is to configure Curator. First, you need to configure how Curator
connects to your database. Create a file `curator.yml` with the following
content:

```
---
client:
  hosts:
    - ${ELASTICSEARCH_HOST}
  username: ${ELASTICSEARCH_AUTH_USERNAME}
  password: ${ELASTICSEARCH_AUTH_PASSWORD}

logging:
  loglevel: INFO
  logfile:
  logformat: default
```

Curator cannot use the `ELASTICSEARCH_URL` environment variable. You
need to define three other environment variables on your app, duplicating
`ELASTICSEARCH_URL` content.
Hence, if your `ELASTICSEARCH_URL` variable is set to
`http://user:password@host:port`, you need to define:

```
ELASTICSEARCH_HOST=host:port
ELASTICSEARCH_AUTH_USERNAME=user
ELASTICSEARCH_AUTH_PASSWORD=password
```

Now you have to configure your indices life cycle. This is based on your
indices names.
Create a file named `log-clean.yml`. This configuration parses the indices
names stored in Elasticsearch and removes the ones that are too old.

```yaml
actions:
  1:
    action: delete_indices
    description: Delete old log indices
    options:
      ignore_empty_list: True
      disable_action: False
    filters:
    - filtertype: pattern
      kind: prefix
      value: ${LOGS_INDICES_PREFIX}
    - filtertype: age
      source: name
      direction: older
      timestring: '%Y.%m.%d'
      unit: days
      unit_count: ${LOGS_RETENTION_DAYS}
```

You now need to add two environment variables:

```
LOGS_INDICES_PREFIX=unicorns
LOGS_RETENTION_DAYS=10
```

The first environment variable is `LOGS_INDICES_PREFIX`. It configures the
index pattern that should be affected by this policy. Setting this variable
to `unicorns` prevent Curator from deleting the other indices that are stored
in the same database.

The second environment variable is `LOGS_RETENTION_DAYS`. It configures
the retention time of your logs (in days). Setting this variable to `10`,
Curator will delete an index if it is 10+ days old.

### Scheduling the Curator Task

Curator is not a daemon, it is designed as a one-off process. To be able
to run it on Scalingo you can leverage our [Scheduler](https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/app/task-scheduling/scalingo-scheduler).

At the root of your Logstash directory, create a file named `cron.json` to
setup your recurring task. The following example starts curator everyday at
03:00 (3 AM) and 15:00 (3 PM):

```json
{
  "jobs": [
    {
      "command": "0 3,15 * * * curator --config curator.yml log-clean.yml"
    }
  ]
}
```

The last step is to trigger a new deployment of your Logstash instance by
pushing your changes to your Scalingo remote.

That's all folks!

This tutorial is based on an article published on [our
blog](https://scalingo.com/articles/2018/02/23/running-the-elk-stack-on-scalingo.html).
