---
title: MongoDB
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2017-09-13 00:00:00
tags: databases mongodb addon
index: 1
---

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

MongoDB is the official addon provided by Scalingo, details on the available plans can be found [here](https://scalingo.com/databases/mongodb). This addon gives your app instant access to a MongoDB database running in its own Docker container.


## Adding MongoDB to your app

You can add the MongoDB addon through the **Dashboard** or through the **command line interface**. The capacity of your database is elastic, you will be able to upgrade it later.

### Through the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to add
4. In the dialog select the database plan you need
5. Validate your choice

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_addons_mongo.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Through the command-line interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-add mongodb 1g

-----> Addon mongodb has been provisionned
       ID: my-app-3030
       Modified variables: [MONGO_URL SCALINGO_MONGO_URL]
       Message from addon provider: Database successfully created
```

This command will provision the application `my-app` with a `1g` MongoDB database plan.

To find out what other plans are available:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-plans mongodb
```

## Getting your connection URI

Once the addon is provisioned, 2 environment variables are added to your app: `SCALINGO_MONGO_URL` and `MONGO_URL`. `MONGO_URL` is an alias to `SCALINGO_MONGO_URL` for the convenience of some libraries such as the framework [Meteor]({% post_url languages/meteorjs/2000-01-01-start %}) or the Ruby gem **mongoid**, but using `SCALINGO_MONGO_URL` is preferred in most cases. To find out how to use them in your code please refer to [Application environment]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}).

In most cases, you can pass the variable directly to the client library you are using in your code. But sometimes the library requires a specific URI format, you'll need to add a little bit of code to suit the library.

You can get those variables from the Dashboard or the command-line interface.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Environment** tab
3. `MONGO_URL` and `SCALINGO_MONGO_URL` are displayed

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_environment_mongo.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### From the command-line interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app env | grep MONGO

MONGO_URL=$SCALINGO_MONGO_URL
SCALINGO_MONGO_URL=mongodb://my-app-3030:2rj5FYoiKRFp8eZhpMz7@my-app-3030.mongo.dbs.appsdeck.eu:30949/my-app-3030
```

## Remote access your database

If you need to access your database from other places than your app please
follow the [Access your database]({% post_url
platform/databases/2000-01-01-access %}) guide.

### Force TLS connections

MongoDB [support
TLS](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/security-transport-encryption/) to
encrypt all of its network traffic: either between the client and the
server or between the different replicas of your database.

By default, all new MongoDB databases have TLS activated. If you want to
connect to it, use the `--ssl` option:

```shell
mongo --ssl --sslAllowInvalidCertificates "<connection string>"
```

Some existing databases may not have yet TLS support. To activate TLS, you need
to restart the database.  Any action leading to the restart will activate TLS
(e.g. plan update, upgrade of the database).

TLS is an option, you can still access your database without it if needed.

The `--sslAllowInvalidCertificates` option is mandatory as the generated
certificates for your databases are
[self-signed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-signed_certificate). If you
want the certificate to be trust-able, you need to download our certification
authority certificate and specify it to the MongoDB CLI tool.

If you want to force connections to your database to use TLS, head to the
database dashboard and click on the toggle button:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_force_tls.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

Note that you must have configured your application to use TLS when connecting
to the database.

### Download the CA certificate

The certificate of our certification authority is available on the database
dashboard.

After downloading it, you can specify its path to the `mongo` CLI:

```shell
mongo --ssl --sslCAFile=/path/to/ca.pem "<connection string>"
```

## Changing plans

You can upgrade or downgrade your database plan whenever you need it. This operation happens instantly thanks to Docker containers and no manual input is required. When you change the plan, your database will be stopped then restarted on a new host with new parameters of the chosen plan. During the operation the connection is dropped between your app and the database. Finally, after the operation is successful, the related app will be restarted.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to change
4. In the dialog select the plan you want to upgrade/downgrade to
5. Validate your choice

### From the command-line interface

To upgrade or downgrade your addon the sub-command is the same: `addons-upgrade`.

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade my-app-3030 2g
```

In this example, `my-app-3030` is the ID of the addon, and `2g` is the plan we want to upgrade to.

To find out the addon ID:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons

+------------------+------------------+------+
|       ADDON      |        ID        | PLAN |
+------------------+------------------+------+
| MongoDB | my-app-3030      |   1g |
+------------------+------------------+------+
```

## Database dashboard

The MongoDB dashboard is the central place for administrative tasks such as:

- Monitor database and system stats
- Upgrade the database engine version
- Activate database specific features (e.g. Oplog for MongoDB)
- Manage database users
- Manage backups

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_overview.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Database Upgrade

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we will try to provide it as soon as possible. You will have the choice to upgrade your database with one click through your database dashboard.

This operation is similar to changing your database plan; your database will be stopped and
restarted with the new database version. When this operation finishes, your application will be
restarted.

If using a Business plan for your MongoDB addon, we are able to upgrade your instance to a newer
version *without downtime*. In order to do so, we follow [MongoDB
guidelines](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/3.4-upgrade-replica-set/#upgrade-process).

We first upgrade the secondary members of the replica set. Then, the primary member steps down (by
issuing a MongoDB command) to force the election of a new primary amongst the current secondary
members. During the election, the replica set cannot receive write commands. This election process
usually takes a dozen seconds. Once a new primary is elected, we can safely upgrade the remaining
member and set the feature compatibility version to the latest one.

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}

### Container Stats

<table class="mdl-data-table ">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">CPU usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Current CPU usage.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Memory usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free memory. Highest is the maximum memory recorded since database restarted.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Swap usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free swap. Highest is the maximum swap recorded since database restarted.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Database Stats

<table class="mdl-data-table ">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">MongoDB index size</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Index size reported by MongoDB, for the best performance this value should fit in the memory size.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Data size</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Logical space reported by the database.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database on disk size</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Effective physical space used.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Backups

{% include database_backups.md %}

### Download automated backups

Automated backups are listed in the database specific dashboard.

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Click **Dashboard <i class="material-icons">open_in_new</i>** which will take you to the **MongoDB dashboard**
4. Click on **Backups** tab
5. Download the backup you want

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_backups.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Manual database backup

If you wish to manually backup your database, please follow [How to dump and restore my MongoDB database on Scalingo]({% post_url databases/mongodb/2000-01-01-dump-restore %}) guide.

{% include encryption_at_rest.md %}

## MongoDB Oplog

Oplog is a MongoDB feature which logs all the operations achieved on a MongoDB cluster. This feature is tightly related to MongoDB replication, but is also used by Meteor to increase app performance. If you wish to use Oplog in your application please refer to the official [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/). Oplog can be enabled from the database dashboard, when activated it will automatically add the `MONGO_OPLOG_URL` variable in your application.

### Activating Oplog

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Click **Link to dashboard** which will take you to the **MongoDB dashboard**
4. Click on **Advanced** tab

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_advanced.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Meteor specific

Meteor uses this feature to sync different instances of an application. Your can read more about how to scale Meteor [here]({% post_url languages/meteorjs/2000-01-01-start %}#how-to-scale-meteor).

The variable `MONGO_OPLOG_URL` is the one used by Meteor. As a result, after activating Oplog you have to restart your application.
