---
title: Access your MongoDB database with Compass
nav: Compass
modified_at: 2019-08-01 00:00:00
tags: databases mongodb compass tunnel
index: 4
---

MongoDB Compass is the official GUI to manage MongoDB database. It supports CRUD operations and
offers nice visualization of your data. It is freely available on the [MongoDB
website](https://www.mongodb.com/products/compass).

Databases hosted on Scalingo are not by default directly available on the Internet. To access it, a
solution is to setup an [encrypted tunnel]({% post_url platform/databases/2000-01-01-access %}).

MongoDB Compass lets you configure this tunnel. We will guide through the steps to configure
the connection to a Scalingo hosted MongoDB through an encrypted tunnel.

## Configuration of Compass

The connection data can be found in the `MONGO_URL` environment variable of your application.

```
$ scalingo --app my-app env | grep MONGO_URL
MONGO_URL=mongodb://sample-node-meanjs-7093:EsEjseivpacatVoogfijbiapgadTyg@c393a9e3-42fe-4e33-9e6c-8ee815e9af88.sample-node-meanjs-7093.mongodb.dbs.scalingo.com:31312/sample-node-meanjs-7093
```

In this case:

* Hostname: c393a9e3-42fe-4e33-9e6c-8ee815e9af88.sample-node-meanjs-7093.mongodb.dbs.scalingo.com
* Port: 31312
* User: sample-node-meanjs-7093
* Password: EsEjseivpacatVoogfijbiapgadTyg
* Database: sample-node-meanjs-7093

Fill the fields accordingly:

{% assign width = "450px" %}
{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/compass/new_connection.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

The "SSH Tunnel" section must "Use Identity File". The identity file to provide
is your private SSH key you uploaded on your Scalingo profile.

The "SSH Hostname" and "SSH Port" depends on the region your database is
deployed on:

{% include ssh_urls.md %}

### Connect with TLS

As a replacement to using an encrypted tunnel to connect to your database, you can make it available
on the internet from your database dashboard. You must first [force
TLS]({% post_url databases/mongodb/2000-01-01-start %}#force-tls-connections) connections.

This is done in Compass by selecting "Server Validation" in the "SSL" section of the "Connect to
Host" form:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/compass/ssl_configuration.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

The "Certificate Authority" is downloadable
[here](https://db-api.scalingo.com/api/ca_certificate).

{% warning %}
If your plan has a single node replica, you might see the error `topology type:
unknown is not writable` in MongoDB Compass. In such case, you should leave the
field "Replica Set Name" empty.
{% endwarning %}
