---
title: Scalingo for MySQL® Overview
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2025-08-22 12:00:00
tags: database mysql addon
index: 1
---

## MySQL®

MySQL® is a free and open-source relational database management system. It is
known for its reliability, ease of use, and performance, making it one of the
most popular database systems in the world. It is well-suited for a wide range
of applications, from small-scale websites to large-scale enterprise solutions.


## Scalingo for MySQL®

Scalingo for MySQL® (Community Edition) is our official MySQL® addon. [We have several
plans available](https://scalingo.com/databases/mysql#database-compare)
from which you can choose depending on your needs and budget. As always, a free
plan is available for you to test our offer.

### Features

All our plans are fully managed. They allow to scale your database to another
plan whenever you want.

They also include access to metrics and logs, allowing for quick and easy
monitoring and auditing. For more information regarding this topic, please [see
our dedicated page]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-monitoring %}).

From the security point of view, they all come with a TLS connection and
encryption at rest.

In addition to the above, Starter and Business plans include daily automatic
backups. All backups are encrypted and stored externally. For more information
regarding this topic, please [see our dedicated page]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-backing-up %}).

For the most demanding environments, our Business plans include a fully-managed
InnoDB cluster made of 3 MySQL® nodes in a private network and 2 MySQL® Routers
(one leader and one failover) as entrypoint to your cluster private network. The
communications in the cluster are encrypted. Choosing such a plan drastically
lowers the risk of unavailability, be it during a maintenance operation
(database upgrade, for example) or because of a platform issue.

### Available Version

The latest version of MySQL® available is **`8.0.43-1`**.

This is also the default version when attaching a MySQL® addon to your
application.

### Requirements

For MySQL versions 8 and higher, every tables must have a primary key.

If you need to add a primary key to the `foo` table. You need to
evaluate the impact of this modification before proceeding. Here is an example
SQL statement to add a new column and set it as primary:

```sql
ALTER TABLE 'foo' ADD COLUMN <column description> PRIMARY KEY;
```

### Billing

Billing of your MySQL® addon is done on a minute basis.

If your database disk usage exceeds the threshold set on your plan, the
over-quota is billed per GB-hour ([see our FAQ further details](https://scalingo.com/databases/mysql)).

The prices are detailed on
[our dedicated page](https://scalingo.com/databases/mysql).
