---
title: Java on Scalingo
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2021-10-21 00:00:00
tags: java
index: 1
---

Java is officially supported on Scalingo

## Versions

The default JDK version installed is: `1.8`.

* 1.7 `1.7.0_352`
* 1.8 `1.8.0_352` (LTS)
* 10  `10.0.2`
* 11  `11.0.17` (LTS)
* 13  `13.0.13`
* 14  `14.0.2`
* 15  `15.0.9`
* 16  `16.0.2`
* 17  `17.0.5` (LTS)
* 18  `18.0.2.1`
* 19  `19.0.1`

## Frameworks

Most frameworks should work on the platform, the only condition is to listen on the port
defined by the environment variable `PORT`

* Spring Boot: You can find custom information about this framework at the
  [following page]({% post_url languages/java/2000-01-01-spring-boot %})

## Languages Using the JVM

Even though the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) was initially designed to execute
program developed with Java, a lot of new languages have been developed to
be executed on it. Most of them should work on Scalingo. Here are examples of
such languages known to work on Scalingo:

* Scala: see the specific documentation page [here]({% post_url languages/scala/2000-01-01-start %}).
* Groovy: see the specific documentation page [here]({% post_url languages/groovy/2000-01-01-start %}).
* Clojure: see the specific documentation page [here]({% post_url languages/clojure/2000-01-01-start %}).
* Kotlin: see the sample deployed [here](https://sample-kotlin.scalingo.io/).

## Deployment

It uses Maven 3.3.9 to build your application and OpenJDK 1.8 to run it (by
default).

Example usage:

```bash
$ ls
Procfile  pom.xml  src

$ scalingo create my-app

$ git push scalingo master
...
-----> Java app detected
-----> Installing OpenJDK 1.8... done
-----> Installing Maven 3.3.9... done
-----> Installing settings.xml... done
-----> executing /app/tmp/repo.git/.cache/.maven/bin/mvn -B -Duser.home=/tmp/build_19z6l4hp57wqm -Dmaven.repo.local=/app/tmp/repo.git/.cache/.m2/repository -s /app/tmp/repo.git/.cache/.m2/settings.xml -DskipTests=true clean install
       [INFO] Scanning for projects...
       [INFO]
       [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
       [INFO] Building readmeTest 1.0-SNAPSHOT
       [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
...
```

The buildpack will detect your app as Java if it has the file `pom.xml` in the
root. It will use Maven to execute the build defined by your `pom.xml` and
download your dependencies.

If your build results in a `.war` file you need to add a small dependency to
your project in order to execute it. Just [follow the guide]({% post_url
languages/java/2000-01-01-war %}).

The `.m2` folder (local maven repository) will be cached between builds for
faster dependency resolution. However neither the `mvn` executable nor the
`.m2` folder will be available in your slug at runtime.

## Configuration

### Default JVM Configuration

By default the `-Xmx` configuration of the JVM depends on the size of container
you selected for your application:

* S: `160m`
* M: `300m`
* L: `671m`
* XL: `1536m`
* 2XL: `3g`
* 3XL: `6g`
* 4XL: `12g`

### Choose a JDK

Create a `system.properties` file in the root of your project directory and
set `java.runtime.version=15` (or any of the Java supported version).

Example:

```bash
$ ls
Procfile pom.xml src

$ echo "java.runtime.version=15" > system.properties

$ git add system.properties && git commit -m "OpenJDK 15"

$ git push scalingo master
...
-----> Java app detected
-----> Installing OpenJDK 15... done
...
```

### Choose a Maven Version

The `system.properties` file also allows for `maven.version` entry
(regardless of whether you specify a `java.runtime.version` entry). For example:

```text
java.runtime.version=14
maven.version=3.2.5
```

Supported versions of Maven are:
- 3.0.5
- 3.1.1
- 3.2.5
- 3.3.9
- 3.5.4
- 3.6.2

You can request new versions of Maven by submitting a pull request to the [Java
buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/java-buildpack) against the
`lib/common.sh` file.

### Customize Maven

There are two environment variables that can be used to customize the Maven execution:

+ `MAVEN_CUSTOM_GOALS`: set to `clean install` by default
+ `MAVEN_CUSTOM_OPTS`: set to `-DskipTests=true` by default

These variables can be set like this:

```bash
$ scalingo env-set MAVEN_CUSTOM_GOALS="clean package"
$ scalingo env-set MAVEN_CUSTOM_OPTS="--update-snapshots -DskipTests=true"
```

Other options are available for [defining custom a `settings.xml`
file](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/using-a-custom-maven-settings-xml).

### Installation of JDK only (no Maven)

Your application may need to have the JDK/JVM only and not installing any dependency,
in this case you should use the [multi-buildpack]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi %}).
The `.buildpacks` file lists the buildpacks you need to use, it has to look like:

```
https://github.com/Scalingo/buildpack-jvm-common
[Your second buildpack]
```

The role of the JVM Common buildpack to install it according to the
`system.properties` file as mentionned above in this page.

### Add a custom CA to Java Keychain

You may need to add one or multiple custom certificates to your JDK's Keychain.
You need to [download Scalingo default JDK
cacerts](https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/jdk/cacerts), then add the
custom certificates you'd like to add with the following command:

```
keytool -import -keystore cacerts -file custom.cer
```

Then create the following directory in your application
`.jdk-overlay/jre/lib/security/` and move the `cacerts` keystore file to it.
Add it to your repository, and that's it! Your custom CAs will be taken into
account.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/java-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/java-buildpack).
