---
title: Deploying Symfony on Scalingo
nav: Symfony
modified_at: 2019-11-25 00:00:00
tags: php framework symfony assetic deployment
index: 3
---

## Detection

When a PHP application is deployed, Scalingo automatically detect the most well
known frameworks, including Symfony.

During the deployment process you'll see the following output, mentioning that
the framework has correctly been detected.

```bash
-----> Detected Symfony App
...
-----> Setting up Symfony App
```

## Configuration

The standard way to define environment-dependent variables in Symfony is to
modify the `app/config/parameters.yml` file that is generated by Composer and
usually excluded from Git (without that it wouldn't be safe to store
credentials in it). This method to define environment variables is very
specific to Symfony, and has been thought to be compatible with shared
hostings, where you drag and drop your files on a FTP server, without the
possibility to set normal environment variables.

With Scalingo, it's exactly the opposite: you can't modify the `parameters.yml`
file unless you add it to Git. But as we explained before, it's a _very_ bad
practice! The good method, as specified in the [12
factors](http://12factor.net), is to define environment variables.

You now have to choose between two solutions to make your Symfony configuration
compatible with environment variables:

#### Keeping `parameters.yml` in dev, using environment variables on Scalingo

Luckily,
[Incenteev/ParameterHandler](https://github.com/Incenteev/ParameterHandler)
(the package in charge of managing your parameters) supports environment
parameters. Go to the Scalingo dashboard, and add the needed environment
variables, ideally respecting the UPPERCASE_SNAKE_CASE. Then, edit your
`composer.json` file and add a `extra.incenteev-parameters` key that describes
the mapping between Symfony parameters and the environment variables:

```json
{
    "extra": {
        "incenteev-parameters": {
            "env-map": {
                "database_host": "DATABASE_HOST",
                "database_port": "DATABASE_PORT"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Now, your application will use the environment variables (when defined), *and*
the `parameters.yml` file.

#### Get rid of `parameters.yml`, only use environment variables

For sure, this will make your configuration cleaner. But `parameters.yml` has
the advantage of being easy to edit, and the `parameters.yml.dist` provides a
template and configuration reference which is valuable when working in team.
For instance, when a coworker enters `composer install`, the CLI will ask him
for the missing values, so he gets notified of parameters changes.

In order to only work with environment variables, let's remove
Incenteev/ParameterHandler:

 - Delete the line `"Incenteev\\ParameterHandler\\ScriptHandler::buildParameters",` in your `composer.json` ;
 - Delete ParameterHandler's configuration in `composer.json` under `extra.incenteev-parameters` key ;
 - Run `composer remove incenteev/composer-parameter-handler`.

Now, you'll find that Symfony [provides a native support for environement
variables](https://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/configuration/external_parameters.html),
but when Incenteev/ParameterHandler is installed (it is, by default), they are
overwritten by it, since it is loaded at higher level in the framework.

{% note %}
  Symfony will grab any environment variable prefixed with SYMFONY__ and set it
  as a parameter in the service container. Some transformations are applied to
  the resulting parameter name:
  - SYMFONY__ prefix is removed;
  - Parameter name is lowercased;
  - Double underscores are replaced with a period, as a period is not a valid
    character in an environment variable name.
{% endnote %}

So, if you have a `%some.awesome.parameter%` in your config, define the
`SYMFONY__SOME__AWESOME_PARAMETER` variable in Scalingo's dashboard.

It's now up to you to define your environment variables in your development environment.

## Reverse Proxy

Applications on Scalingo are deployed behind a reverse proxy. You need to
instruct Symfony to use the information in the `X-Forwarded-*` HTTP headers. The
instructions to do so are available in [Symfony
documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/deployment/proxies.html#but-what-if-the-ip-of-my-reverse-proxy-changes-constantly). You basically need to update the `public/index.php` file to include:

```php
Request::setTrustedProxies(
    // trust *all* requests
    ['127.0.0.1', $request->server->get('REMOTE_ADDR')],
    Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_ALL
);
```

## Log Files

By default, we are getting the logs written on stdout and send them to our log
aggregator system. The PHP logging does not work the same way (since the
standard output is what is sent back to the browser), and Symfony is using its
own log files.

These files are named `var/logs/dev.log` and `var/logs/prod.log` (`app` instead
of `var` in Symfony 2 applications) by default. The logs stored in those files
are visible in the _Logs_ section of the dashboard.

## Cache Warmup

Towards the end of the deployment process, you will see the following output:

```bash
Warmuping cache
```

It means that we are preparing the cache of your application, to avoid making
it at runtime and loosing performance. Under the hood, the following command is
executed (replace `app` with `bin` in Symfony 3):

```bash
app/console cache:warmup --env=prod --no-debug
```

By default, this command executes the default _cache warmers_ that the
framework provides. You can add your own cache warmers: [learn more about
Symfony's cache warmup
here](http://blog.whiteoctober.co.uk/2014/02/25/symfony2-cache-warmup-explained/).

## Asset Management with Assetic

If you are using Assetic to handle your assets, you may need to run a custom
command once Symfony has been installed. To do so, you need to add the
following piece of configuration in your `composer.json`:

```json
{
  // ...,
  "extra": {
    "paas": {
      "compile": [
        "php app/console assetic:dump --env=prod --no-debug"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

This configuration node (`extra.paas.compile`) defines that after installing
Symfony, the `assetic:dump` command will be executed, preparing your assets for
your application. Of course, you can add any other commands here!

## Applying Database Migration

During the lifetime of your application, you may need to update the schema of
your database. When using Symfony, these actions are handled using the Doctrine
ORM. This Symfony [documentation
page](https://symfony.com/doc/master/bundles/DoctrineMigrationsBundle/index.html)
explains how to use Doctrine with your application.

On Scalingo you can teach the platform to apply your database
migration automatically during the deployment using a
[postdeploy hook]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}).
Here is the
content of the Procfile to apply Doctrine migration to your application:

```yaml
postdeploy: php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
```

Note that the postdeploy hook execution time **should not exceed 20 minutes**.
Therefore it should not be used for complex database migration on very large
database. In that case you'd better use our
[CLI]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %}) to perform such administrative tasks.

## Symfony Messenger

Handling Symfony Messenger queues requires you to start [another process]({% post_url
platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}) in your application. Add the following line to the `Procfile`
of your application:

```yaml
worker: php bin/console messenger:consume async
```

After deploying your application, you must scale the newly created type of
containers `worker` at least to 1.

## Known Issues

### Disable `DebugBundle` on Scalingo

When deploying a Symfony app on Scalingo, you may see the following error:

```text
PHP Fatal error: Uncaught Symfony\Component\Debug\Exception\ClassNotFoundException: Attempted to load class "DebugBundle" from namespace "Symfony\Bundle\DebugBundle".

Did you forget a "use" statement for another namespace? in /app/src/Kernel.php:42
```

This is because your application is deployed in production mode on Scalingo.
Hence, the `DebugBundle` dependency is not installed by Composer during the
build. In order to let Symfony know to only use `DebugBundle` in development and
test environment, you should update the file `config/bundles.php`:

```php
Symfony\Bundle\DebugBundle\DebugBundle::class => ['dev' => true, 'test' => true],
```
