---
title: PHP
modified_at: 2017-01-26 00:00:00
category: languages
tags: php
index: 6
permalink: /languages/php/
show_in_toc: true
---

## Detection

Your application will be detected as a PHP application if:

* There is a `composer.lock` file at the root of your project
* `index.php` is present in the root directory (legacy app)

## Stack

The PHP buildpack provided by Scalingo is based on Nginx and PHP-FPM.

## Composer

Composer is the official package manager for PHP. The official website is
[https://getcomposer.org/](https://getcomposer.org/). You can find their useful
information and configuration. This buildpack is based on Composer. The
dependencies of your app will be installed according to your Composer
configuration.

### `composer.json`

This file defines the different dependencies used by your application. It is also
used to configure custom settings of your project (see below).

### `composer.lock`

When you have defined the different third-party libraries you want to use, you
need to fix the version you want to install. These versions will be written in
a `compose.lock` file. This file is _required_ as it will be read to deploy
your application on Scalingo.

To generate `compose.lock` you need to run:

```bash
$ composer install
```

When you need to upgrade a library, for instance `slim`:

```bash
$ composer update slim/slim
```

The `composer.lock` file will be updated automatically, do not forget to commit
the modifications of the file.

## Composer during the deployment

We consider that when you deploy your application on Scalingo that your want it
to run in "production" mode. As a result, `composer install` is run with the
flag `--no-dev`.

If, in order to debug your application, you wish to install development dependencies,
you can set the following environment variable:

* `COMPOSER_DEV=true`

## Officially supported frameworks

Scalingo supports out-of-the-box many well-known frameworks. When using such
frameworks, you have nothing special to configure in your `composer.json`, just
`git push` your code and everything will work!

List of the frameworks:

* [Symfony 2 and 3]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-php-symfony2-deployment %})
* Zend Framework 2
* Magento
* [Slim](https://sample-php-slim.scalingo.io/)
* [Laravel]({% post_url languages/php/2017-06-22-php-laravel-artisan-migration %})
* [Lumen](https://sample-php-lumen.scalingo.io/)
* Silex
* Cake PHP 2
* Change 2

## Configuration tweaks

### Setup basic auth

You may want to hide your application behind a simple authentication gateway,
you can [configure HTTP basic auth]({% post_url
languages/php/2000-01-01-php-basic-auth %}) for you application.

### PHP-FPM concurrency

The level of concurrency configured is defined automatically according to the
size of the containers of your application. If you want to override this value,
you can define the environment variable: `WEB_CONCURRENCY`.

The value defined here, directly modify the `pm.max_children` parameter,
defining how much process will be run by `php-fpm`.

### Buildpack tweaks - custom configuration

> [_What is a buildpack_]({% post_url internals/buildpacks/2015-01-04-buildpacks %})

The buildpack allows you to configure precisely how your application is
deployed. This configuration is done in your `composer.json` at the _root_
of your project.

All these fields are __optional__, define them if you need to modify their
default value.

```json
{
  … // Your content
  "extra": {
    // default values of PaaS specific instructions
    "paas": {
      "document-root": "",
      "index-document": "index.php",
      "engines": {
        "nginx": "default",
        "php": "default"
      },
      "php-config": [],
      "php-includes": [],
      "php-fpm-config": [],
      "php-fpm-includes": [],
      "nginx-includes": [],
      "log-files": [],
      "compile": [],
      "new-relic": false,
      "access-log-format": ""
    }
  }
}
```

### `.extra.paas.document-root`

The directory where Nginx will define the root of your app.

> It is empty by default, it means that Nginx will look at the index.php at the
  root of your project.

This parameter can also be overridden with the `DOCUMENT_ROOT` environment
variable.

### `.extra.paas.index-document`

Name of the index document of each directory. When accessing a directory
(`https://example.scalingo.io/web/`), Nginx looks by default for an `index.php`
file to execute, if your project is using another name, specify it here.

### `.extra.paas.engines.nginx`

Define a precise version of Nginx to use. By default your application is
reachable through the last stable version of the server. Most of the time, you
don't need to change this value.

### `.extra.paas.engines.php`

Define a precise version of PHP to use. The last stable version will be installed
if nothing is specified.

Example:

```json
{
  "engines": {
    "php": "~7.0"
  },
}
```

### `.extra.paas.php-config`

List of directives which will be added to your `php.ini`.

Example:

```json
{
  "php-config": [
    "display_errors=off",
    "short_open_tag=on"
  ]
}
```

### `.extra.paas.php-fpm-config`

List of directives which will be added to your `php-fpm.ini`.

Example:

```json
{
  "php-fpm-config": [
    "log_level=debug"
  ]
}
```

### `.extra.paas.php-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the `php.ini`.

### `.extra.paas.php-fpm-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the `php-fpm.ini`.

### `.extra.paas.nginx-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the Nginx configuration of your
application.

### `.extra.paas.compile`

Commands to run after the dependency installation.

Example:

```json
{
  "compile": [
    "php app/console assetic:dump --env=prod --no-debug"
  ]
}
```

### `.extra.paas.log-files`

If your project is writing in custom log files, you can specify them here and
they will be streamed to the logs of your application.

Your can read the logs on your dashboard or with the Scalingo CLI utility.

### `.extra.paas.new-relic`

If true, enable new-relic instrumentation tools.

The environment variable named `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY` is required.

### `.extra.paas.access-log-format`

The format of the logs produced by the proxy Nginx for each request to your
application.

It is empty by default, it means that Nginx will use the following format:

```
'$http_x_forwarded_for - "$request" $status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" "$http_user_agent"'
```

e.g.

```
109.26.203.98 - "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 1761 "http://google.com/search" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.12; rv:51.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/51.0"
```

> Note that the default output doesn't display any timestamp, as Scalingo log
> aggregation system will prepend it in the global logs of the application: For
> instance `2017-01-26 12:02:06.504267001 +0100 CET [web-1] <nginx log output>`

When defining a custom value for the log format, please refer to the Nginx
[documentation
page](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_log_module.html#log_format)..

This parameter can also be overridden with the `ACCESS_LOG_FORMAT` environment
variable.

## Warning: `.htaccess` files

Legacy projects often use `.htaccess` file in their project to modify the
configuration of the Apache server. As the buildpack is based on Nginx and
PHP-FPM, these files are ineffective.

Instead of using these files, you have to write directives for Nginx and
configure the `nginx-includes` part of your `composer.json`. It can contains
one or more configuration files:

```json
{
  …
  "extra": {
    "paas": {
      "nginx-includes": ["path/to/nginx_conf_file", …]
    }
  }
}
```

### Example: URL rewriting (e.g. WordPress)

Here is an example of legacy `.htaccess` which won't work on Scalingo. You need
to replace it with the Nginx configuration following the example.

Legacy `.htaccess` example:

```ApacheConf
<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
RewriteEngine On
RewriteBase /
RewriteRule ^index\.php$ - [L]
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
RewriteRule . /index.php [L]
</IfModule>
```

Nginx configuration:

```nginx
location / {
  try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php?$args;
}
```
