---
title: Scalingo Elasticsearch Addon
modified_at: 2017-09-13 00:00:00
tags: databases elasticsearch addon
---

{% note %}
	Some operation requires our command-line tool to be installed.
  <br>
  Instructions are detailed in <a href="{% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %}">Command-Line Tool Documentation</a> and <a href="http://cli.scalingo.com">installer</a> page.
{% endnote %}

Scalingo Elasticsearch addon is the official addon provided by Scalingo.
Details on the available plans can be found
[here](https://scalingo.com/addons/scalingo-elasticsearch). This addon gives
your app instant access to an Elasticsearch database.

## Adding Scalingo Elasticsearch addon to your app

You can add the Elasticsearch addon through the **Dashboard** or through the **command-line interface**. The capacity of your database is elastic, you will be able to upgrade it later.

### Through the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on the [Scalingo dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to add
4. In the dialog select the database plan you need
5. Validate your choice

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_addons_elasticsearch.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Through the command-line interface

```bash
$ scalingo -a my-app addons-add scalingo-elasticsearch 1g

-----> Addon scalingo-elasticsearch has been provisionned
       ID: my-app-3030
       Modified variables: [ELASTICSEARCH_URL SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL]
       Message from addon provider: Database successfully created
```

This command will provision the application `my-app` with a `1g` Elasticsearch database plan.

To find out what other plans are available:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-plans scalingo-elasticsearch
```

## Getting your connection URI

Once the addon is provisioned, 2 environment variables are added to your app: `SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL` and `ELASTICSEARCH_URL`. `ELASTICSEARCH_URL` is an alias to `SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL`. To find out how to use it in your code please refer to [Application environment]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}).

In most cases, you can pass the variable directly to the client library you are using in your code. But sometimes the library requires a specific URI format, you'll need to add a little bit of code to suit the library.

You can get environment variables from the dashboard or the command line interface.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Environment** tab
3. `SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL` is displayed

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_environment_elasticsearch.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### From the command line interface

```bash
$ scalingo -a my-app env | grep ELASTIC

ELASTICSEARCH_URL=$SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL
SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL=http://my-app-3030:MpIxXstskccB3Ab2iwKH@my-app-3030.elasticsearch.dbs.appsdeck.eu:30995
```

## Remote access your database

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

The difference between this data storage engine and the others is that Elasticsearch
communicates over HTTP, so you can use any tool built for that. You don't have to use
an official client. The most common command line tool is `curl`. The following example
uses it.

### Use `scalingo run`

```bash
scalingo --app <application name> run curl http://<user>:<password>@<host>:<port>
```

**Example**

If my application's name is 'my-app' and it has the environment variable
`SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL = "http://my-app-123:H_grwjqBteMMrVye442Zw6@my-app-123.elasticsearch.dbs.scalingo.com:30000/my-app-123"`

You can run:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app run curl $SCALINGO_ELASTICSEARCH_URL
{
  "status" : 200,
  "name" : "the Tomorrow Man Zarrko",
  "version" : {
    "number" : "1.3.4",
    "build_hash" : "a70f3ccb52200f8f2c87e9c370c6597448eb3e45",
    "build_timestamp" : "2014-09-30T09:07:17Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "4.9"
  },
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

### Force TLS connections

Our Elasticsearch image support TLS to encrypt all of its network traffic
between the client and the server.

Elasticsearch cannot listen to connections with and without TLS. If you want to
encrypt communications with your Elasticsearch databases, you need to force all
connections to use TLS. Forcing TLS connections is as simple as heading to the
database dashboard and clicking on the toggle button:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_force_tls.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

Note that you must have configured your application to use TLS when connecting
to the database.

```shell
curl --insecure -X GET <URL>
```

With `URL` starting with `https://`.

The `--insecure` option is mandatory as the generated certificates for your
databases are
[self-signed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-signed_certificate). If you
want the certificate to be trust-able, you need to download our certification
authority certificate and specify it to the MongoDB CLI tool.

Some existing databases may not have yet TLS support. To activate TLS, you need
to restart the database. Any action leading to the restart will activate TLS
(e.g. plan update, upgrade of the database).

### Download the CA certificate

The certificate of our certification authority is available on the database
dashboard.

After downloading it, you can specify its path:

```shell
curl --cacert=/path/to/ca.pem -X GET "<URL>"
```

## Changing plans

You can upgrade or downgrade your database plan whenever you need it. This operation happens instantly thanks to Docker containers and no manual input is required. When you change the plan, your database will be stopped then simply restarted on a new host with new parameters of the chosen plan. During the operation the connection is dropped between your app and the database. Finally, after the operation is successful, the related app will be restarted.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to change
4. In the dialog select the plan you want to upgrade/downgrade to
5. Validate your choice

### From the command-line interface

To upgrade or downgrade your addon the sub-command is the same: `addons-upgrade`.

```bash
$ scalingo -a my-app addons-upgrade my-app-3030 2g
```

In this example, `my-app-3030` is the ID of the addon, and `2g` is the plan we want to upgrade to.

To find out the addon ID:

```bash
$ scalingo -a my-app addons

+------------------------+-------------+------+
|          ADDON         |      ID     | PLAN |
+------------------------+-------------+------+
| Scalingo Elasticsearch | my-app-3030 |   1g |
+------------------------+-------------+------+
```

## Database dashboard

The Scalingo Elasticsearch dashboard is the central place for administrative tasks such as:

- Monitor database and system stats
- Upgrade the database engine version
- Activate database specific features
- Manage database users
- Manage backups

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_elasticsearch_overview.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Database Upgrade

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we will try to provide it as soon as possible. You will have the choice to upgrade your database with just one click through your database dashboard.

This operation is similar to changing your database plan. Your database will be stopped and restarted with new database environment. Thanks to Docker containers this happens seamlessly and quickly without manual action. When this operation finishes, your application will be restarted.

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}

### Container Stats

<table class="mdl-data-table ">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">CPU usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Current CPU usage.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Memory usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free memory. Highest is the maximum memory recorded since database restarted.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Swap usage</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free swap. Highest is the maximum swap recorded since database restarted.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Database Stats

<table class="mdl-data-table ">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database on disk size</td>
      <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Effective physical space used.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Backups

{% include database_backups.md %}

### Download automated backups

Automated backups are listed in the database specific dashboard.

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Click **Link to dashboard** which will take you to the **Scalingo Elasticsearch dashboard**
4. Click on **Backups** tab
5. Download the backup you want

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_elasticsearch_backups.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Restoring a backup

**Download the backup file**

Go to your database dashboard, in the *Backups* tab and download the last dump
you want to restore locally.

The archive is a **.tar.gz** containing a dump of your database. Backups are
done using [Elasticsearch
Knapsack](https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-knapsack) for Elasticsearch
1.x or 2.x.

Knapsack is a plugin to handle dump and restore of Elasticsearch data, you need to install
it locally, please follow instructions on the *README* of the project.

Since Elasticsearch 5.x, we use the [snapshot/restore
feature](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.0/modules-snapshots.html)
of Elasticsearch.

**Restoring Knapsack Backup**

**Knapsack** expects to find a file named `_all.tar.gz` in the directory `path.logs`
of Elasticsearch. This parameter can be set in your Elasticsearch configuration file, otherwise
it will be equivalent to `/`

Rename the downloaded file to `_all.tar.gz` and move it to the `path.logs` file of your installation:

```bash
$ mv 20160101010000-db-1234.tar.gz /_all.tar.gz
```

Then run the following curl command to trigger Knapsack importation:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/_import -d ''
{"running":true,"state":{"mode":"import","started":"2016-04-27T09:38:41.202Z","path":"file:///_all.tar.gz","node_name":"Miguel Espinosa"}}
```

That's it the importation has started, you can follow it by running a request against the state endpoint:

```bash
└> curl '172.17.0.2:9200/_import/state' -d ''
{"count":2,"states":[{"mode":"import","started":"2016-04-27T09:38:41.202Z","path":"file:///_all.tar.gz","node_name":"Miguel Espinosa"},{"mode":"import","started":"2016-04-27T09:40:11.889Z","path":"file:///_all.tar.gz","node_name":"Miguel Espinosa"}]}%
```

Once ended, you'll have all your data locally.
