---
title: Python
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2022-01-07 00:00:00
tags: python
index: 1
---

The Python language is officially supported on the platform.

## Detection

To ensure our deployment system considers your application as a Python
application, a file `Pipfile`, `requirements.txt` or `setup.py` should be
present at the root of your project, defining the dependencies of your app.

## Versions

## Supported Versions

{% warning %}
Python 2.x is only supported on `scalingo-18` stack.
{% endwarning %}

* 3.10.1
* 3.9.9
* 3.8.12
* 3.7.12
* 3.6.15
* 2.7.18

### Recommended: pipenv

The preferred way to manage dependencies and python version is by using the
`pipenv` tool. When creating a project with pipenv, the Python version is
frozen in the `Pipfile` file, i.e.:

```
[requires]
python_version = "3.7"
```

The deployment system will use this information to install the last available
version respecting this constraint. In the previous example Python `3.7.11`
would be installed.

The `python_version` field only accepts minor versions of Python like `3.10` or
`3.8`.  If the project needs to use a specific Python patch (i.e.: `3.10.1`)
the Pipfile should contain a `python_full_version` field, e.g.:

```
[requires]
python_full_version = "3.10.1"
```

### Legacy: runtime.txt

Python 2 and Python 3 are both completely supported, you can specify the
runtime version in the `runtime.txt` file at the root of your repository.

Example of `runtime.txt` which would install Python 3.7.5:

```text
python-3.7.5
```

## Dependencies

### Recommended: pipenv

When the project is using `pipenv` and contains a **Pipfile** and a
**Pipfile.lock** files, the following command is used to install dependencies:

```
pipenv install
```

### Legacy: requirements.txt

If a `requirements.txt` file is present in your application, the dependencies
will be installed respecting this file with:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Frameworks

We handle most of the common frameworks. Obviously, Django is among them. You need to
configure your application to bind the port defined by the environment variable `$PORT`.

* [Getting Started with Django]({% post_url languages/python/django/2000-01-01-start %})

## Specific Python Buildpack Hooks

You may want to trigger custom actions after a successful deployment. The [postdeploy hook]({%
post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}) is exactly what you need. But your
application may require some actions to be executed during the deployment.

The Python buildpack can execute two hooks: before and after the installation of Python and its
dependencies. They must be located in the `bin` root folder of your application and be named
`pre_compile` and `post_compile`.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack).
