---
title: SSB-2024-003 - OpenSSH Remote Code Execution
nav:  SSB-2024-003 (OpenSSH)
modified_at: 2024-10-07 00:00:00
tags: security bulletin scalingo openssh sshd regreSSHion
cvss:
  version: 3.1
  base: 8.1
  temporal: 7.3
  environmental: 0.0
---

Scalingo is aware of the recently reported issue regarding OpenSSH
([CVE-2024-6387](https://www.cert.ssi.gouv.fr/alerte/CERTFR-2024-ALE-009/)).

This vulnerability allows an unauthenticated attacker to remotely execute arbitrary code with root privileges.

Scalingo is not using OpenSSH in its environnements.

The editor specifies that versions 8.5p1 to 9.7p1 are confirmed vulnerable on 32-bit Linux systems with glibc and ASLR enabled. However, it is specified that exploitation requires between six and eight hours of continuous connections. Furthermore, it speculates that these attacks could be optimized to be faster, all the more so when ASLR is disabled.

The editor adds that exploitation on 64-bit systems or without glibc seems possible, but has not been demonstrated.

This vulnerability was discovered by Qualys researchers. In their blog post, they point out that OpenSSh versions prior to 4.4p1 are also vulnerable. They also recommend checking logs for the presence of a large number of "Timeout before authentication" lines, in order to detect potential exploitation attempts.

As of July 1, 2024, some Linux distributions have proposed patches for vulnerable versions.

## Action required

None

## Scalingo PaaS

Scalingo Platform-As-A-Service is not impacted.

## Scalingo DBaaS addons

Scalingo Database-As-A-Service Elasticsearch is not impacted.

### Other Scalingo addons and services

Other Scalingo Platform addons and features are not impacted.

### Changelog

2024-07-10 : Initial version
