---
title: Manage Go dependencies with govendor
nav: Manage dependencies with govendor
modified_at: 2018-02-23 00:00:00
tags: go dependencies
index: 4
---

This tutorial explains how to deploy a Go application which is using `govendor`
to manage its dependencies. To handle the version management of the
dependencies, please follow [the offical govendor
guide](https://github.com/kardianos/govendor), this page will focus on the
deployment of the app.

## Configuration

During the deployment of a govendor-ed application, we're looking at three special
keys in the configuration file `vendor/vendor.json` to give our deployment system the
data we need to deploy correctly the application:

* `rootPath` (String): The root package of your project, recent versions of
  `govendor` fills this field for you.

* `scalingo.goVersion` (String): the major version of Go you would
  like Scalingo to use when compiling your code. If not specified, we'll install
  the last stable version.

* `scalingo.install` (Array of strings): What should be installed of your
  application. We'll default to `["."]` to install the package at the top level
  of your project, if your executable is in the `cmd` directory, another
  common choice is `["./cmd/..."]`. If you want to install all the packages including
  those which are vendored, you can use `["./..."]`.

* `scalingo.sync` (Boolean default true): By default, `govendor sync` will be run to
  fetch your dependencies. Is all your code is vendored in the `vendor` directory, you
  can switch this boolean to `false`

Here is an example with [https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini](https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini/tree/govendor).

```json
{
  ...
  "rootPath": "github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini",
  "scalingo": {
    "install" : [ "." ],
    "goVersion": "go1.10.0"
  },
  ...
}
```

## Ignored vendor/ sub directories

As specified in the govendor documentation, `vendor/*/` can be added to your `.gitignore`
file, excluding any vendored code from being included in git.

Scalingo runs `govendor sync` before running `go install` whenever govendor is
detected. This is done to ensure that all dependencies specified in
`vendor.json` are installed in your application's `vendor/` directory.
