---
title: Go
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2020-04-28 00:00:00
tags: go
index: 1
---

The Go programming language is supported.

## Deploying a Go Application

### Version Compatibility

#### Officially Supported

* `go1.16.1`
* `go1.15.9`
* `go1.14.2`
* `go1.13.10`
* `go1.12.17` (default)
* `go1.11.13`
* `go1.10.8`

#### Other Versions

Any version of Go can be used from go1.0.0, but it is advised to update your
application to one of the officially supported versions.

### Managing Dependencies

When deploying a Go application it is important to ensure that the compilation
is completely reproducible, multiple tools exist in the Go ecosystem, and
Scalingo is compatible with the most used among them:

* With [`Go Modules`](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules): [Documentation]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-gomod %})
* With [`golang/dep`](https://github.com/golang/dep): [Documentation]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-dep %})
* With [`govendor`](https://github.com/kardianos/govendor): [Documentation]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-govendor %})
* With [`godep`](https://github.com/tools/godep): [Documentation]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-godep %})

#### Private Dependencies

Here is how to use a dependency in a private repository for your application.

The platform looks for environment variables that follow the following pattern:
`GO_GIT_CRED__<PROTOCOL>__<HOSTNAME>`.  Any periods (`.`) in the `HOSTNAME` must
be replaces with double underscores (`__`).

The value of a matching var will be used as the username. If the value contains
a ":", the value will be split on the ":" and the left side will be used as the
username and the right side used as the password. When no password is present,
`x-oauth-basic` is used.

The following example will cause git to use the `FakePersonalAccessTokenHere` as
the username when authenticating to `github.com` via `https`:

```console
$ scalingo env-set GO_GIT_CRED__HTTPS__GITHUB__COM=FakePersoalAccessTokenHere
```

#### Defining a Procfile

```yaml
web: <base package name>
```

Example if your package is `github.com/user/example`:

```yaml
web: example
```

### Pre/Post Compile Hooks

If the file `bin/go-pre-compile` exists and is executable, it will be executed before compilation.

Likewise, if the file `bin/go-post-compile` exists and is executable, it will be executed after the compilation.

Because the buildpack installs compiled executables to `bin`, the
`go-post-compile` hook can be written in go if it's installed by the specified
[`<packagespec>`]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-gomod %}) or [`metadata.scalingo['install']`]({% post_url languages/go/2000-01-01-dep %}).

You can find an example at: [https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini](https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini)

### Using .godir (Deprecated)

The alternative is to use a `.godir` file at the root of your project
defining the name of your project binary. All the dependencies will be
downloaded using `go get` and in this case the repeatability of the
operation is not ensured.

`.godir`:

```text
my-sample
```

`Procfile`:

```yaml
web: my-sample
```

Example: https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini/tree/godir

## Common Questions

### My application is only using the standard library, do I need Godeps or dep

Yes, Godeps and dep are not only about freezing dependencies version, it is
also to save the Go runtime you're using. We'll install the same version as the
one specified in `Godeps/Godeps.json`, at the key `.GoVersion`

Example:

```json
{
	"ImportPath": "github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-maritni",
	"GoVersion": "go1.10",
	"Packages": [
		"github.com/Scalingo/sample-go-martini"
	],
  ...
}
```

## Buildpack

More information at [https://github.com/Scalingo/go-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/go-buildpack).
