---
title: Custom Domain Name
modified_at: 2017-01-02 00:00:00
category: app
tags: app domain-name dns cname http
---

Scalingo provides for all apps a subdomain of `scalingo.io` to access your application.
Of course, you may want to change it and use your own. This operation requires different
configuration operations:

## Buy a domain name

We do not sell domain names, to use your own, you need to buy it from a company which
sells them (called registrar).

* DNS Simple - https://dnsimple.com/
* OVH - https://www.ovh.com
* Gandi - https://www.gandi.net

Those are examples, you can find an exhaustive list on the [ICANN
website](https://www.icann.org/registrar-reports/accredited-list.html). The
process is pretty similar with any of these services, you search for the
availability of the domain and if it is available, you can just buy it per
year.

## Configure your domain name

After having bought a domain name you need to configure it. Most of the
registrars provide a web dashboard to do so. To target your application
hosted on Scalingo, you need to create a `CNAME` field targeting the
fully qualified domain name (fqdn) `appname.scalingo.io.`

### Example

The raw configuration line to add is to create an alias between `www.example.io`
and `example.scalingo.io` is:


    NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
    www    10800    IN    CNAME    example.scalingo.io.


<blockquote class="bg-info">
  This operation is not instant. DNS propagation can take up to days to be completely done.
</blockquote>

## Configure your application

Once you have correctly configured your domain name to target your application you need
to configure it to accept request from this domain. You can achieve the operation with
our [CLI](http://cli.scalingo.com), or through our [dashboard](https://my.scalingo.com).

Using our CLI:

```bash
scalingo -a <app> domains-add <domain name>
```

Using the web dashboard: 

Go to the 'Domains' tab of your app dashboard, fill the 'Domain Name' text field and validate
by clicking on 'Link domain name to the app'.

Linking a domain domain name to your app automatically creates a [Let's Encrypt
certificate]({% post_url app/2016-12-23-letsencrypt %}).

## Root domain

Most of the registrars only allow `A` field for root domains. However `A` should target an IP. As Scalingo
don't ensure that our front IP addresses won't change over time, we advise you to use a subdomain for your
application or to migrate your domain name to another DNS provider.

Some providers allow to create `ALIAS`, `ANAME` or `CNAME` field for root domains:

* DNSimple (ALIAS)
* DNS Made Easy (ANAME)
* easyDNS (ANAME)
* CloudFlare (CNAME)
* PointDNS (ALIAS)

If you want to keep your registrar which is not compatible with root domain aliases, you can create a `A` field targeting our web entrypoint `185.60.151.19`. This IP may change in the future, in this case you'll get an email at least 30 days in advance to let you know you have to change your domain configuration.

## Wildcard domain

### App configuration

You may want to redirect all subdomains of your domain to a specific Scalingo application.
To achieve this you've to add a domain name with the form:

* `*.domain.tld`
* `*.subdomain.domain.tld`

Then all requests targeting for instance `www.domain.tld` or `admin.domain.tld` will be
redirected to this specific application.

<blockquote class="bg-info">
  Note that Let's Encrypt do not deliver wildcard certificates. If you add such a custom domain, we
  will not be able to create Let's Encrypt certificate.
</blockquote>

### Priorities

If an application has the wildcard domain `*.domain.tld` configured and that another application
is using `admin.domain.tld`, the wildcard won't override the `admin` subdomain. Actually, any
complete subdomain will have priority over the wildcard.

### DNS configuration

If you need to redirect all the subdomains to Scalingo servers, you need to setup your DNS
accordingly, it's really close to configuring a single domain name:

    NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
    *      10800    IN    CNAME    example.scalingo.io.

<blockquote class="bg-info">
  This operation is not instant. DNS propagation can take up to days to be completely done.
</blockquote>

### Note

When you add an alias, we don't do any prior verification. If you cannot add
your alias because it's already taken on Scalingo and you think you're legit
to use it, send an email to <support.scalingo.com>
describing the problem.
