---
title: Applications Metrics
modified_at: 2018-02-07 00:00:00
category: app
tags: app metrics
---

We gather a few performance metrics of your application that are accessible on the dashboard of your
application. Just head to the Metrics tab of your application to see charts of these key metrics.

## Global View

This page contains two main parts: **application charts** and **containers charts**. You can adjust
the viewing period to 3h, 12h, 24h, 48h and 72h in the past. We try to autodetect your timezone from
your browser and you can still change it later if needed.

### Application Charts

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_metrics_application.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

The application chart displays global data that are not container specific: events and routing
metrics.

The **events chart** is here to show you all the events that happened during the viewing period.
This can help you link an application behaviour with events that happened on the platform, e.g. spot
a deployment that contains a memory leak or follow your application behaviour after a scale up (or
down).

A lot of events are available on your application timeline but we think that only a few are relevant
on the metrics view:

- Restart event
- Deploy event
- Scale event

You will find the complete list of events in our [developer
documentation](https://developers.scalingo.com/events.html)).

The **requests per minute** is here to show you how many requests your application gets per minute. It
displays you two different kinds of data. The first one is the number of requests per minute, the
famous **RPM**. And the second one is the number of server error responses generated by your
application (HTTP responses in the 500 range).

**Note**: 504 and 503 errors can be generated by our reverse proxy. More information is available in
the [routing documentation]({% post_url internals/2015-03-22-routing %}).

The **requests time** chart displays 3 different values regarding the requests time of your
application: the 95th percentile (`p95`), the 99th percentile (`p99`) and the median. All times are
in millisecond.

### Container Charts

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_metrics_containers.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

The container charts use the container types defined in your [Procfile]({% post_url internals/2014-12-01-procfile %}).

For each of your container type, two charts are shown. The first one shows the **CPU usage** and the
second one the **Memory** and **swap** usage of this type of container. For the memory chart, we
stack your memory usage (in blue) and your SWAP usage (in red). That way you can easily see the
total memory usage of your application.

> Protip: Is your application slow? Check your swap usage! If your app swaps a lot it will
significantly alter your application performance. You'd better reduce your memory usage or use a
bigger container size.

**Note**: The swap line is only shown if the swap usage exceeds 2% of your
[container memory limit]({% post_url internals/2015-04-15-container-sizes %}).

If you have more than one container of a specific type, these charts will show the mean CPU usage /
Memory consumption of all your containers of the same type.

### Detailed View

If you have more than one container of a type defined in your Procfile, you'll be able to access a
detail view of your container. The charts are exactly the same except that they are now per
container (and not per container type). It will help you spot a bugged container and therefore
simplify the debugging process.
