---
title: Overview
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2025-06-02 12:00:00
tags: database opensearch addon
index: 1
---


## OpenSearch®

OpenSearch® is a free and open-source search and analytics engine developed by
Amazon and designed as a community-driven fork of Elasticsearch® 7.10, after
Elastic® changed its licensing model. It allows users to ingest, search,
visualize, and analyze large volumes of data quickly and in real time.
OpenSearch® supports a variety of use cases such as log analytics,
observability, and enterprise search, thanks to its powerful full-text search
capabilities, scalability and RESTful API. Its modular design makes it a very
good choice for both small applications, and large-scale, distributed systems.


## Scalingo for OpenSearch®

Scalingo for OpenSearch® is our official OpenSearch® addon. [We have several
plans available][available-plans] from which you can choose depending on your
needs and budget.

Please make sure to also see [**Features**][opensearch-features] and
[**Limitations**][opensearch-limitations], as well as the dedicated
[**Plugins**][opensearch-plugins] page to get a comprehensive view of what is
included in our offers.

### Life-Cycle

OpenSearch® delivers feature releases every few months, with major versions
released approximately once a year. At Scalingo, we focus on providing stable
and well-supported OpenSearch® versions for production workloads.

Our managed service currently includes version 2.x, with plans to introduce
version 3.x once it becomes stable and widely adopted. However, as the
OpenSearch® roadmap is not finalized, the exact timeline for this upgrade
depends on the availability and maturity of the 3.x release.

Each major version we provide benefits from minor upgrades including critical
bug fixes and security patches.

#### Available Versions

| OpenSearch Version | Full Version   |
| -----------------: | -------------: |
| **`2`**            | up to `2.19.1` |

The default version when provisioning a Scalingo for OpenSearch® addon is
**`2.19.1-7`**.

{% note %}
If you need to provision a Scalingo for OpenSearch® addon with a specific
version, please get in touch with our Support team.
{% endnote %}

### Pricing

Our prices are detailed on [our dedicated page][opensearch].

Billing of your Scalingo for OpenSearch® addon is done on a minute basis.

If your database disk usage exceeds the threshold set on your plan, the
over-quota is billed per GB-hour ([see our FAQ for further
details][opensearch]).


[opensearch]: https://scalingo.com/databases/opensearch
[available-plans]: https://scalingo.com/databases/opensearch#database-compare

[opensearch-features]: {% post_url databases/opensearch/about/2000-01-01-features %}
[opensearch-limitations]: {% post_url databases/opensearch/about/2000-01-01-limitations %}
[opensearch-plugins]: {% post_url databases/opensearch/guides/2000-01-01-using-plugins %}
