---
title: GDPR Procedures
nav: GDPR
modified_at: 2022-03-15 00:00:00
tags: procedures gdpr
---

## How to sign a GDPR DPA with Scalingo?

We have made it easy for you to comply with your own obligations. If you are a
Scalingo customer and have determined that you qualify as a Data Controller
under the GDPR, you may need a Data Processing Agreement (DPA) in place with
Scalingo as a qualifying vendor. We’ve made that part of the process easy for
you.

This is all you need to do:

- Go [here](https://cdn.scalingo.com/pdf/scalingo-dpa-customer-20180523.pdf) to find our GDPR-compliant DPA, which has been pre-signed on behalf of Scalingo.
- To complete the DPA, you should fill in the information in the "On behalf of the Customer" box and sign on Page 8.
- Submit the completed and signed DPA to Scalingo to [dpo@scalingo.com](mailto:dpo@scalingo.com).
- Upon submitting the validly completed DPA to the email address provided above, the DPA will become legally binding.

## How to modify my personal information on Scalingo?

You have full control on your user account via our dashboard and can update your user details.

## How to remove all my personal information on Scalingo?

You have full control on your user account via our dashboard and can delete it, providing you have payed all your invoices.

## How can I get all my information out of Scalingo?

- Source code: you already have stored your source code elsewhere before sending it to Scalingo
- Databases: use the internal tools provided by the database technology or download a backup if your plan provides them
- Logs: use the dashboard to get back your application logs
- Alerts and metrics: our platform doesn't currently allow to download these

## There is personal information about me on an application hosted by Scalingo, how can I use my rights of modification or deletion?

1. Try to contact the owner of the application via the internal contact page or messaging system.
2. If you don't get any answer you can contact Scalingo support via support@scalingo.com and we will forward your request to the owner.