---
title: Scalingo for PostgreSQL® Overview
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2025-11-28 17:00:00
tags: database postgresql addon
index: 1
---

## PostgreSQL®

PostgreSQL® is a free, open-source, community-managed object-relational
database management system focusing on SQL compliance and extensibility. It is
well-known for its performances, reliability and robustness, making it a very
powerful database, able to handle small to huge workloads.

Besides the core features (ACID transactions, views, triggers, foreign keys,
...) PostgreSQL® also offers solutions for more specialized usages, such as
object storage with the native jsonb format, for specific dataset kinds,
such as geographic datasets with the PostGIS extension, for time-series
datasets with TimescaleDB or for vector similarity search thanks to the
pgvector extension.


## Scalingo for PostgreSQL®

Scalingo for PostgreSQL® is our official PostgreSQL® addon. [We have several
plans available][available-plans] from which you can choose depending on your
needs and budget. A free plan is available for you to test our offer.

To get a complete view of what is included in our service, see 
[**High availability**][postgresql-ha], [**Features**][postgresql-features], 
[**Limitations**][postgresql-limitations], and the dedicated 
[**Extensions**][postgresql-extensions] page.

### Life-Cycle

The PostgreSQL® project releases new major versions annually, introducing new
features and performance improvements. At Scalingo, we ensure compatibility
with these major versions, typically making them available on our platform
about one year after their initial release.

While the PostgreSQL® community supports a major version for up to five years
after its initial release, Scalingo supports each major version on our platform
for three years, providing minor upgrades that include critical bug fixes and
security patches. After this period, we gradually deprecate oldest versions to
ensure security, performance, and operational efficiency.

#### Available Versions

| PostgreSQL Version | Full Version      | Life cycle             |
|--------------------|-------------------|------------------------|
| **`16`**           | up to `16.11.0-1` | Support until Nov 2028 |
| `15`               | up to `15.15.0-1` | Support until Nov 2027 |
| `14`               | up to `14.20.0-1` | Support until Nov 2026 |

The default version when provisioning a Scalingo for PostgreSQL® addon is
**`16.11.0-1`**.

{% note %}
If you need to provision a Scalingo for PostgreSQL® addon with a specific
version, please get in touch with our Support team.
{% endnote %}

### Pricing

Our prices are details on [our dedicated page][pg].

Billing of your PostgreSQL® addon is done on a minute basis.

If your database disk usage exceeds the threshold set on your plan, the
over-quota is billed per GB-hour ([see our FAQ for further details][pg]).


[pg]: https://scalingo.com/databases/postgresql
[available-plans]: https://scalingo.com/databases/postgresql#database-compare

[postgresql-features]: {% post_url databases/postgresql/about/2000-01-01-features %}
[postgresql-limitations]: {% post_url databases/postgresql/about/2000-01-01-limitations %}
[postgresql-extensions]: {% post_url databases/postgresql/guides/2000-01-01-managing-extensions %}
[postgresql-ha]: {% post_url databases/postgresql/about/2000-01-01-ha %}
