---
title: Ruby
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2025-03-20 12:00:00
tags: ruby
index: 1
---

Ruby is officially supported by Scalingo. Furthermore, custom support is added
for the Rails framework in all its versions.

* [Getting Started with Rails]({% post_url languages/ruby/rails/2000-01-01-start %})

## Buildpack

The buildpack is based on Bundler and will install the dependencies defined in
the `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` of your project ([source of the
buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack)).

## Ruby Application

Presence of a `Gemfile`

## Rack Based Application

Presence of a `config.ru`

### Rack Environment

When a Rack application is detected, the following environment variable will
automatically be set by the platform:

* `RACK_ENV=production`

## Rails Application

### Rails Application Detection

Scalingo automatically detects the use of Rails, whatever the version used. All Rails versions are supported.

Starting with Rails 5.1, `node` and `yarn` will be automatically installed if the gem `webpacker` is installed.

### Rails Environment

When a Rails application is detected, the following environment variables will
automatically be set by the platform:

* `RACK_ENV=production`
* `RAILS_ENV=production`

## Bundler Version

The buildpack installs a version of Bundler based on the major and minor
version listed in the `Gemfile.lock` file, under the `BUNDLED WITH` key:

| `BUNDLED WITH` | Bundler Version | Req. Ruby Version |
| -------------: | --------------: | ----------------: |
| `2.6.x`        | `2.6.2`         | >= `3.1.0`        |
| `2.5.x`        | `2.5.23`        | >= `3.0.0`        |
| `2.4.x`        | `2.4.22`        | >= `2.6.0`        |
| `2.3.x`        | `2.3.25`        | >= `2.3.0`        |

If your application fails to boot with the following error logs:

```
Activating bundler (2.0.1) failed:
Could not find 'bundler' (2.0.1) required by your /app/Gemfile.lock.
```

It means you need to update bundler in your project:

```
$ gem update bundler
$ bundle update --bundler
$ git add Gemfile.lock
$ git commit -m "Update bundler to new version"
$ git push scalingo master
```

## Ruby Versions

### Availability

| MRI        | `scalingo-20` | `scalingo-22` |
| ---------: | ------------: | ------------: |
| **`3.4`**  | up to `3.4.2` | up to `3.4.2` |
| **`3.3`**  | up to `3.3.7` | up to `3.3.7` |
| **`3.2`**  | up to `3.2.7` | up to `3.2.7` |
| **`3.1`**  | up to `3.1.6` | up to `3.1.6` |

### Select a Version

The default Ruby version on both `scalingo-20` and `scalingo-22` is the latest
**`3.3`** version. If you need to install another version, specify it in your
`Gemfile`, using the `ruby` keyword. For example, to install Ruby `3.4.2`:

```ruby
ruby "3.4.2"
```


## Ruby Application Web Server

Ruby contains a default application web server named `WEBrick`. As it is always
present, most web framework use it by default. It's good enough in development,
but it has never been thought to be a production server.

## Do not use WEBrick

WEBrick has the following characteristics:

* Single threaded
* Single process

It can't handle several request in parallel, they are all in a single request
queue. As a result, very poor performance can be expected. To get the best of
your containers, you need to use a real production-ready application server.

## Using Puma as a Production Server

To handle several requests in parallel, we recommend [puma](https://puma.io).
To use it, add it as dependency in your `Gemfile`:

```text
gem 'puma'
```

And configure how to launch your app by defining a `Procfile`:

```yaml
web: bundle exec puma -C config/puma.rb
```

The configuration file looks like the following:

```ruby
workers Integer(ENV['WEB_CONCURRENCY'] || 2)
threads_count = Integer(ENV['MAX_THREADS'] || 5)
threads threads_count, threads_count

preload_app!

rackup      DefaultRackup
port        ENV['PORT']     || 3000
environment ENV['RACK_ENV'] || 'development'

on_worker_boot do
  # Worker specific setup for Rails 4.1+
  ActiveRecord::Base.establish_connection
end
```

Thus you can change the global settings by modifying the environment
variables `WEB_CONCURRENCY` and `MAX_THREADS` and restarting your app.

## WEB_CONCURRENCY

The level of concurrency configured is defined automatically according to the
memory of the containers of your application. If you want to override this value,
you can define the environment variable: `WEB_CONCURRENCY`.

The default values are:

| Container Memory (MB) | Default Concurrency |
|-----------------------|---------------------|
| 256                   | 1                   |
| 512                   | 1                   |
| 1024                  | 2                   |
| 2048                  | 2                   |
| 4096                  | 4                   |
| 8192                  | 4                   |

