---
title: Jemalloc Buildpack
modified_at: 2018-02-23 00:00:00
tags: buildpacks build jemalloc
---

## Purpose of this buildpack

Jemalloc is a general purpose malloc implementation that works to avoid memory
fragmentation in multithreaded applications. This buildpack makes it easy to
install and use jemalloc with your apps.

## Set up this buildpack for your application

This buildpack is designed to be used in conjunction with one or more additional
buildpacks, thanks to the [multi buildpack]({% post_url
platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi %}).

For instance, when creating a new Ruby app on Scalingo:

```console
$ scalingo create my-app

$ cat << EOF > .buildpacks
https://github.com/Scalingo/jemalloc-buildpack.git
https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack.git
EOF
```

The above commands configure your application to use the multi buildpack, and
define the `.buildpacks` file. This file configures the different buildpacks to
apply. In this example, we configure the jemalloc and the Ruby buildpack.

## Configuration

### Recommended

Set the `JEMALLOC_ENABLED` config option to true and jemalloc will be used for
all commands run inside of your containers.

```
scalingo env-set JEMALLOC_ENABLED=true
```

### Per Container Type

To control when jemalloc is configured on a per container basis, use `jemalloc.sh <cmd>`
and ensure that `JEMALLOC_ENABLED` is unset.

Example Procfile:

```
web: jemalloc.sh bundle exec puma -C config/puma.rb
```

## Choice of jemalloc version

Set this to select or pin to a specific version of jemalloc. The default is to
use the latest stable version if this is not set. You will receive an error
mentioning tar if the version does not exist.

Default: **5.1.0**

note: This setting is only used during app deployment. Changing it will
require a code change to be deployed in order to take affect.

```
scalingo env-set JEMALLOC_VERSION=3.6.0
```

Available Versions:

* 3.6.0
* 4.0.4
* 4.1.1
* 4.2.1
* 4.3.1
* 4.4.0
* 4.5.0
* 5.0.1
* 5.1.0
