---
title: SSH Private Key Buildpack
modified_at: 2018-02-23 00:00:00
tags: buildpacks build ssh key
---

## Purpose of this buildpack

You might need to specify a SSH private key in the Build Environment of your
application (the environment used when your application's container is being built). The [SSH private key
buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/ssh-private-key-buildpack) lets you
specify such key.

This buildpack is especially useful when your application need to access a
private gem or a private npm module.

## Set up this buildpack for your application

This buildpack is designed to be used in conjunction with one or more additional
buildpacks, thanks to the [multi buildpack]({% post_url
platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi %}).

For instance, when creating a new Ruby app on Scalingo:

```console
$ scalingo create my-app
$ scalingo env-set BUILDPACK_URL=https://github.com/Scalingo/multi-buildpack.git

$ cat << EOF > .buildpacks
https://github.com/Scalingo/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack.git
EOF
```

The above commands configure your application to use the multi buildpack, and
define the `.buildpacks` file. This file configures the different buildpacks to
apply. In this example, we configure the SSH private key and the Ruby
buildpack.

## Configuration

Once the buildpack is configured for your app, set the environment variable
`SSH_KEY` to include your private key in your app:

```text
$ scalingo --app my-app env-set SSH_KEY="$(cat /path/to/your/keys/id_rsa | base64)"
```

By default the buildpack adds GitHub to the `known_hosts` file. However you can
configure your app to allow other hosts. You just need to set `SSH_HOSTS` for
you application with a comma-separated list of hosts, e.g.
`git@github.com,git@gitlab.com`.

## Output

At the next deployment, the SSH private key buildpack will setup the private
key and the list of known hosts:

```text
=====> Downloading Buildpack: https://github.com/Scalingo/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
=====> Detected Framework: SSH private key
-----> Running SSH private key setup
       Warning: Permanently added 'github.com,gitlab.com' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
       Welcome to GitLab, Étienne Michon!
```

## Common Error

The output of the deployment might end with an error:

```text
=====> Downloading Buildpack: https://github.com/Scalingo/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
=====> Detected Framework: SSH private key
-----> Running SSH private key setup
       Warning: Permanently added 'github.com,gitlab.com' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
       Permission denied (publickey).
```

In such case, you need to add your public key to the remote service you need to
access (e.g. GitHub or GitLab).
