---
title: Deploying Laravel on Scalingo
nav: Laravel
modified_at: 2021-12-03 00:00:00
tags: php, artisan, laravel, migration
index: 3
---

## Detection

When a PHP application is deployed, we're looking at the composer.json file to
know if it is using a particular framework. For **Laravel**, we're looking
if the Composer dependencies contain `laravel/framework`. If so, your app is
deployed as a Laravel application.

```javascript
{
  "require": {
    "laravel/framework": "~7.2",
    // ....
  }
}
```

During the deployment process you'll see the following output, mentioning that
the framework has correctly been detected.

```
-----> Detected Laravel App
-----> Setting up Laravel App
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

A **Laravel** application requires the `APP_KEY` environment variable to be
defined with a random string. The `artisan` script can generate one for you:

```bash
scalingo env-set APP_KEY=$(php artisan --no-ansi key:generate --show)
```

Then, you will need to set the `APP_URL` environment variable to your main domain
(for instance, https://my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io), otherwise you may end up
with 404 errors.

```bash
scalingo env-set APP_URL=https://my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io
```

### Database Connection

Your application also requires a database, often a SQL database like MySQL
or PostgreSQL. Configuration is similar, replace `mysql://` by `postgresql://`.

First, a [MySQL]({% post_url
databases/mysql/2000-01-01-start %}) or [PostgreSQL]({% post_url
databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-start %}) has to be added to your
application. This addon will inject the environment variable `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL`
or `SCALINGO_POSTGRESQL_URL` and alias it to `DATABASE_URL`. We recommend using the
alias.

```bash
DATABASE_URL=mysql://user:pass@my-db.mysql.dbs.com:30000/my-db
```

Laravel supports database connection strings directly with the `'url'` configuration key.

Open the `app/config/database.php` and modify the `pgsql` or `mysql` entry depending on
your database. You can remove the commented lines.

```php
    'mysql' => array(
        'driver'    => 'mysql',
        'url'       => env('DATABASE_URL'),
        'charset'   => 'utf8',
        'collation' => 'utf8_unicode_ci',
        'prefix'    => '',
    ),
```

### File Storage

Your application may need to write files on the filesystem. On Scalingo, the filesystem [is ephemeral]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-filesystem%}) and you shouldn't use it to store important files. The best practice is to use an object storage such as Amazon S3. The Laravel explanation on how to configure the file storage is [here](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/filesystem). The configuration for this is located in the file `config/filesystems.php`.

## Frontend

When you deploy a Laravel application on Scalingo, the platform detects it and picks the PHP buildpack. This buildpack embeds a Node.js engine and installs the dependencies from your `package.json` file but **will not run the build phase**.

You are required to add a `.buildpacks` file at the root of your project as described in [PHP application with Node.js]({% post_url languages/php/2019-02-07-php-nodejs %}) as well as add a `build` script in your `package.json`. [More information on deploying Node.js applications]({% post_url languages/nodejs/2000-01-01-start %}).

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "build": "npm run production", // add this line
    "prod": "npm run production",
    "production": "mix --production"
  }
}
```

## Migrations

Artisan is the command-line interface included with Laravel. It provides a
number of helpful commands that can assist you while you build your
application.

Migrations are like version control for your database, allowing your team to
modify and share the application's database schema. Migrations are
typically paired with Laravel's schema builder to build your
application's database schema. If you have ever had to tell a teammate to
manually add a column to their local database schema, you've faced the problem
that database migrations solve.

### First Migration

Creating a migration with **Laravel** is done with the following command on your
workstation.

```bash
./artisan make:migration create_plants
```

The file is created at the location `database/migrations/date_yourmigration`. Edit
it to write the content of the migration.

```php
public function up()
{
    Schema::create('plants', function($table) {
        $table->increments('id');
        $table->string('common_name', 100);
        $table->string('latin_name', 100);
        $table->text('description');
    });
}

public function down()
{
    Schema::drop('plants');
}
```

To run locally the migration to see if the syntax is right, run the following command:

```
./artisan migrate
```

If everything went well, add this file to your Git repository and deploy the
application on the platform. Once the application has been deployed, apply the
migration to your production database:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app run php artisan migrate
```

For every migration file, a `down` method should be written in the case we want
to rollback database migrations:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app run php artisan migrate:rollback
```

### Another Example: Alter a Database Table

The previous example created a 'table creation' migration, here is an example of
table alteration.

```php
public function up()
{
    Schema::table('plants', function($table) {
        $table->unique('latin_name', 'plants_unique_latin_name');
    });
}

public function down()
{
    Schema::table('authors', function($table) {
        $table->dropUnique('plants_unique_latin_name');
    });
}
```

As previously, running the migration on the hosted application once deployed:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app run php artisan migrate
```

For more examples, refer to [the official Laravel
documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/migrations).

### Apply Migrations Automatically after Deployment

So far the action to apply migrations on the production database was manual. It
is possible to automate it by using [a postdeploy hook]({% post_url
platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}) All you have to do is to create a `Procfile`
file at the root of your project with the following content:

```yaml
postdeploy: php artisan migrate --no-interaction --force
```

That's it! If a deployment is a success, the command applying migrations will
be automatically run.

## Laravel Queues

Handling Laravel queues requires you to start [another process]({% post_url
platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}) in your application. Add the following line to the `Procfile`
of your application:

```yaml
queues: php artisan queue:work --queue=high,default
```

The arguments of the `--queue` option must be customized to suit your needs.
After deploying your application, you must scale the newly created type of
containers `queues` at least to 1.

## Laravel Tasks Scheduler

The Laravel PHP framework includes a command scheduler for asynchronous tasks.
However, Laravel's [documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/scheduling#running-the-scheduler)
states you need to add a cron entry which is not possible on Scalingo.

From this point, there are two possibilies, depending on the frequency of the
scheduled tasks.

### The Tasks Run on a Frequency Lower Than Once Every 10 Minutes

For these cases, we highly recommend to use the [Scalingo Scheduler]({% post_url platform/app/task-scheduling/2000-01-01-scalingo-scheduler %}).

Create a `cron.json` file at the root of your application with a content similar to this:

```json
{
  "jobs": [
    {
      "command": "15 * * * * cd /app && php artisan schedule:run >> /dev/null 2>&1"
    }
  ]
}
```

In the example above, the task would run at 15 past every hour, but you can
specify your own schedule, as long as it respects the 10 minutes interval.

### The Tasks Run on a Frequency Higher Than Once Every 10 Minutes

These *high-frequency* cases require a bit more work.

First, you need to create your own `Command` subclass because the one
provided by Laravel won't directly suit our needs and constraints. Here is a
good starting point:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Console\Commands;

use Carbon\Carbon;
use Illuminate\Console\Command;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Artisan;

class SchedulerDaemon extends Command
{
  /**
   * The name and signature of the console command.
   *
   * @var string
   */
  protected $signature = 'schedule:daemon {--sleep=60}';

  /**
   * The console command description.
   *
   * @var string
   */
  protected $description = 'Call the scheduler every minute.';

  /**
   * Execute the console command.
   *
   * @return mixed
   */
  public function handle()
  {
      while (true) {
          $this->line('<info>[' . Carbon::now()->format('Y-m-d H:i:s') . ']</info> Calling scheduler');

          $this->call('schedule:run');

          sleep($this->option('sleep'));
      }
  }
}
```

In the example above, you can see that the defined scheduler runs every minute.
(If you look closely, you will also see that our scheduler makes use of the one
provided by Laravel, `schedule:run`.)

You now have to tell Scalingo how to start this new scheduler. To do this,
create (or update) a [`Procfile`]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-procfile %}), like this:

```
scheduler: php artisan scheduler:daemon
```

After deploying your application, you must scale the newly created type of
containers `scheduler` at least to 1.

### Defining the Scheduled Tasks

To define the jobs the scheduler will run, check the
[Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/scheduling#introduction),
it consists in modifying the `schedule` method in the file `app/Console/Kernel.php`.

In the following example, the method `Foo1` will be executed daily and the
method `Foo2` will be executed hourly:

```php
    protected function schedule(Schedule $schedule)
    {
        $schedule->call(function () { Foo1(); })->daily();
        $schedule->call(function () { Foo2(); })->hourly();
    }
```

Based on an article on [Neon
Tsunami](https://www.neontsunami.com/posts/laravel-scheduler-on-heroku).

The Laravel documentation about this feature is available
[here](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/scheduling#defining-schedules).

## Configure Passport

[Laravel Passport](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/passport) provides a full OAuth2 server implementation for Laravel.

Usage on Scalingo requires two steps:
- transfer the information generated during `passport:install` into the production container via env variables
- configure composer to export some env variables into files and run `artisan passport:keys` at each deployment

To transfer the information, use the CLI env-set command:

```
# Install passport, this will output <id> and <secret>
php artisan passport:install

# Set data into container env variables
scalingo env-set \
  "OAUTH_PRIVATE_KEY=$(cat storage/oauth-private.key)" \
  "OAUTH_PUBLIC_KEY=$(cat storage/oauth-public.key)"
  PASSPORT_CLIENT_ID=<id> \
  PASSPORT_CLIENT_SECRET=<secret> \
  # If mix app (with vue front)
  MIX_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<id> \
  MIX_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<secret>

# Remove these files as they should only be used in the deployed environment not in dev
rm storage/oauth-private.key storage/oauth-public.key
```

To configure composer to export some env keys into files and run `artisan passport:keys` at each deployment, update the `scripts` element of your composer.json to integrate the values (`post-install-cmd`, `post-create-project-cmd`) below:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "post-autoload-dump": [
            "Illuminate\\Foundation\\ComposerScripts::postAutoloadDump",
            "@php artisan package:discover --ansi"
        ],
        "post-root-package-install": [
            "@php -r \"file_exists('.env') || copy('.env.example', '.env');\""
        ],
        "post-install-cmd": [
            "[ -n \"$OAUTH_PUBLIC_KEY\" ] && echo \"$OAUTH_PUBLIC_KEY\" > storage/oauth-public.key",
            "[ -n \"$OAUTH_PRIVATE_KEY\" ] && echo \"$OAUTH_PRIVATE_KEY\" > storage/oauth-private.key"
        ],
        "post-create-project-cmd": [
            "@php artisan key:generate --ansi"
        ]
    }
```
