---
title: PHP on Scalingo
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2026-02-25 12:00:00
tags: php
index: 1
---

## Detection

Your application is detected as a PHP application if:

* a `composer.lock` file is present in the root directory of your project
* or if an `index.php` file is present in the root directory of your project
  (*Classic* app)


## Stack

A stack based on Nginx and PHP-FPM is installed.


## Default Configuration

The default configuration for your application is stored in two files, both
available in the PHP buildpack:
- [php.ini](https://github.com/Scalingo/php-buildpack/blob/master/conf/php/php.ini)
- [php-fpm.ini](https://github.com/Scalingo/php-buildpack/blob/master/conf/php/php-fpm.conf)

Reviewing them can give you useful inputs, such as the default values for
parameters like `upload_max_filesize` or `post_max_size`.


## PHP Versions

### Availability

The following PHP versions are available:

| PHP Version | `scalingo-20` (EOL) | `scalingo-22`    | `scalingo-24`    |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| **`8.5`**   | unsupported         | up to `8.5.3`    | up to `8.5.3`    |
| **`8.4`**   | up to `8.4.6`       | up to `8.4.18`   | up to `8.4.18`   |
| **`8.3`**   | up to `8.3.20`      | up to `8.3.30`   | up to `8.3.30`   |
| **`8.2`**   | up to `8.2.28`      | up to `8.2.30`   | up to `8.2.30`   |
| **`8.1`**   | up to `8.1.32`      | up to `8.1.34`   | up to `8.1.34`   |
| **`8.0`**   | up to `8.0.30`      | unsupported      | unsupported      |
| **`7.4`**   | up to `7.4.32`      | unsupported      | unsupported      |

{% include scalingo_20_deprecation_note.md %}

{% note %}
Even though we still support them, we strongly advise against using deprecated
versions of PHP, such as PHP `7.4.x` or `8.0.x`.
If you are still using one of these deprecated versions, please consider
migrating to a more recent version.
{% endnote %}

### Select a Version

The default PHP version on all stacks is the latest **`8.1`** version.
If you need to install another version, specify it in your `composer.json` file.
For example, to install the latest PHP version of the `8.2` branch:

```json
{
  "require": {
    "php": "~8.2"
  }
}
```

{% note %}
You should not specify a precise version such as `8.2.3` or you would miss
important updates. Instead, you should specify `~8.2.3` to install a version
`>=8.2.3 and <8.3.0` or specify `~8.2` to install a version `>=8.2 and <9.0.0`.

Further details about version constraints can be found in the
[Semver documentation](https://github.com/npm/node-semver?tab=readme-ov-file#advanced-range-syntax)
{% endnote %}

If you do not use `compose.json` (classic app), you can specify the PHP version 
through the environment variable `PHP_VERSION`.

## PHP Extensions and Dependencies

See our dedicated documentation pages:

- [Working with PHP Dependencies]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-dependencies %})
- [Working with PHP Extensions]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-extensions %})


## Supported Frameworks

Here is a non-exhaustive list of frameworks known to work on Scalingo:

* [Symfony]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-symfony %})
* [Laravel]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-laravel %})
* Laravel Lumen
* Slim
* CakePHP
* [CodeIgniter]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-codeigniter %})
* Laminas MVC
* Magento


## Configuration Tweaks

### Setup Basic Authentication

You may want to hide your application behind an authentication gateway.
You can [configure HTTP basic auth]({% post_url languages/php/2000-01-01-basic-auth %})
for your application.

### PHP-FPM Concurrency

The level of concurrency configured is defined automatically according to the
size of the containers of your application. If you want to override this value,
you can define the environment variable: `WEB_CONCURRENCY`. It directly
modifies the [`pm.max_children`](https://www.php.net/manual/fr/install.fpm.configuration.php)
parameter of PHP-FPM, defining the upper limit of how many workers handling
incoming requests will be running. Each of these processes will be able to run
1 request at a time.

The default values for `pm.max_children` are based on the `memory_limit`
parameter of the [PHP configuration](https://github.com/Scalingo/php-buildpack/blob/master/conf/php/php.ini#L15),
the used formula is: `floor(available_memory / php_memory_limit) + 2`

{: .table }
| Container Size | Memory (MB) | Default Concurrency |
| -------------: | ----------: | ------------------: |
| S              | 256         | 3                   |
| M              | 512         | 4                   |
| L              | 1024        | 7                   |
| XL             | 2048        | 12                  |
| 2XL            | 4096        | 22                  |

### Concurrency Fine Tuning

Fine tuning the value of the `WEB_CONCURRENCY` environment variable is a bit
tricky and must be handled with care. There is no magic formulae and one must
load test his application to find the best value matching his use case. If the
application is swapping, you might need to lower the value of `WEB_CONCURRENCY`
and increase the amount of containers. On the contrary, if your application
does not use all his memory, one can try to slightly increase the
`WEB_CONCURRENCY` value and make sure the application does not start swapping.

Note that if the `WEB_CONCURRENCY` value is too high your application will not
be 100% available. You will see at some point the following error message in
your application logs, multiple times:

```text
connect() to unix:/tmp/php-fpm.sock failed (11: Resource temporarily
unavailable) while connecting to upstream, client: XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX, server:
localhost, request: "GET / HTTP/1.1", upstream:
"fastcgi://unix:/tmp/php-fpm.sock:", host: "example.com"
```

It happens when the PHP-FPM requests queue is full. Restarting your application
empties this requests queue and makes your application back up. Then you should
improve the value of the `WEB_CONCURRENCY` value.

### Buildpack Custom Configuration

{% note %}
[_What is a buildpack?_]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-intro %})
{% endnote %}

The buildpack allows you to configure precisely how your application is
deployed. This configuration is done in your `composer.json` at the _root_
of your project.

All these fields are __optional__, define them if you need to modify their
default value.

```json
{
  … // Your content
  "extra": {
    // default values of PaaS specific instructions
    "paas": {
      "document-root": "",
      "index-document": "index.php",
      "engines": {
        "nginx": "default"
      },
      "framework": "",
      "php-config": [],
      "php-includes": [],
      "php-fpm-config": [],
      "php-fpm-includes": [],
      "nginx-includes": [],
      "log-files": [],
      "compile": [],
      "new-relic": false,
      "access-log-format": ""
    }
  }
}
```

#### `.extra.paas.document-root`

The directory where Nginx will define the root of your app.

{% note %}
  It is empty by default, it means that Nginx will look at the `index.php` at
  the root of your project.
{% endnote %}

This parameter can also be overridden with the `DOCUMENT_ROOT` environment
variable.

#### `.extra.paas.framework`

Bypass framework detection by specifying the framework you want. It could also
be useful if you need to specify your application does not use any framework.
This is done by specifying `default` in the `.extra.paas.framework`
configuration.

#### `.extra.paas.index-document`

Name of the index document of each directory. When accessing a directory
(`https://example.osc-fr1.scalingo.io/web/`), Nginx looks by default for an
`index.php` file to execute, if your project is using another name, specify it
here.

#### `.extra.paas.engines.composer`

Define a specific version of Composer to use. By default your application uses
the latest Composer version available. Most of the time, you don't need to
change this value.

#### `.extra.paas.engines.nginx`

Define a precise version of Nginx to use. By default your application is
reachable through the last stable version of the server. Most of the time, you
don't need to change this value.

{% include nginx_versions.md %}

#### `.extra.paas.php-config`

List of directives which will be added to your `php.ini`. The default values
used for your application are in the buildpack's
[php.ini](https://github.com/Scalingo/php-buildpack/blob/master/conf/php/php.ini).

Example:

```json
{
  "php-config": [
    "display_errors=off",
    "short_open_tag=on"
  ]
}
```

#### `.extra.paas.php-fpm-config`

List of directives which will be added to your `php-fpm.ini`.

Example:

```json
{
  "php-fpm-config": [
    "log_level=debug"
  ]
}
```

#### `.extra.paas.php-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the `php.ini`.

#### `.extra.paas.php-fpm-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the `php-fpm.ini`.

#### `.extra.paas.nginx-http-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the Nginx configuration of your
application. These files are injected at the `http` scope of the
configuration file.

#### `.extra.paas.nginx-includes`

Extra files which will be included in the Nginx configuration of your
application. These files are injected at the `server` scope of the
configuration file.

#### `.extra.paas.compile`

Commands to run after the dependency installation.

Example:

```json
{
  "compile": [
    "php app/console assetic:dump --env=prod --no-debug"
  ]
}
```

#### `.extra.paas.log-files`

If your project is writing in custom log files, you can specify them here and
they will be streamed to the logs of your application.

Your can read the logs on your dashboard or with the Scalingo CLI utility.

#### `.extra.paas.datadog`

{% note %}
The Datadog agent must be installed first ([see the documentation]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-datadog %})).
{% endnote %}

To enable [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/) support, set the `extra.paas.datadog` property to `true`. It makes the following Datadog products available:

- Datadog APM (Application Performance Monitoring)
- Datadog ASM (Application Security Management)

This automatically installs the latest available version of the Datadog Tracer and enables APM. To disable the tracer, set the `DATADOG_TRACER_VERSION` environment variable to `0` (`latest` by default).
Note that disabling the tracer will also disable APM and ASM.

The Datadog ASM (Application Security Management) extension is disabled by default. To install and enable ASM, set the `DATADOG_APPSEC_VERSION` environment variable to `latest` (`0` by default).

#### `.extra.paas.new-relic`

If true, enable New Relic instrumentation tools.

The environment variable named `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY` is required.

It is also [highly
recommended](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-appname)
to include the `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME` environment variable to specify the name of
the application as displayed in the New Relic UI.

#### `.extra.paas.scout`

If true, enable [Scout APM](https://scoutapm.com/) support.

You may want to use the environment variable `SCOUT_APM_VERSION` to install a specific version of the [PECL extension](https://pecl.php.net/package/scoutapm).

#### `.extra.paas.access-log-format`

The format of the logs produced by the proxy Nginx for each request to your
application.

It is empty by default, it means that Nginx will use the following format:

```
'$http_x_forwarded_for - "$request" $status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" "$http_user_agent"'
```

e.g.

```
109.26.203.98 - "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 1761 "https://google.com/search" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.12; rv:51.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/51.0"
```

{% note %}
  Note that the default output doesn't display any timestamp, as Scalingo log
  aggregation system will prepend it in the global logs of the application. For
  instance:

  `2017-01-26 12:02:06.504267001 +0100 CET [web-1] <nginx log output>`
{% endnote %}

When defining a custom value for the log format, please refer to the Nginx
[documentation
page](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_log_module.html#log_format)..

This parameter can also be overridden with the `ACCESS_LOG_FORMAT` environment
variable.

## Warning: `.htaccess` Files

Classic PHP applications often use `.htaccess` file in their project to modify
the configuration of the Apache server. As the buildpack is based on Nginx and
PHP-FPM, these files are ineffective.

Instead of using these files, you have to write directives for Nginx and
configure the `nginx-includes` part of your `composer.json`. It can contains
one or more configuration files:

```json
{
  …
  "extra": {
    "paas": {
      "nginx-includes": ["path/to/nginx_conf_file", …]
    }
  }
}
```

## Example: Configuring Rate Limiting

In the following example we will set a rate limit of `one request per second
per IP`.

Create a `nginx-http.conf` file at the root of your project:

```nginx
limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=mylimit:10m rate=1r/s;
```

Then create a `nginx-app.conf` file at the root of your project:

```nginx
location /login {
    limit_req zone=mylimit;
    try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php?$query_string;
}
```

Then modify your `composer.json` to add `nginx-http-includes` and
`nginx-includes` config:

```json
{
  "extra": {
    "paas": {
      "nginx-http-includes": ["nginx-http.conf"],
      "nginx-includes": ["nginx-app.conf"]
    }
  }
}
```

{% warning %}
  This configuration will not work with `location /` as it can't be overridden
  in the PHP buildpack. If you want to apply a rate limit on all endpoints of
  your application you need to setup two apps (one web app and one reverse
  proxy app) by using our [Nginx buildpack]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-nginx %})
  and using this [process]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-nginx %}#setup-throttling-with-a-limit_req_zone).
{% endwarning %}

## Example: URL Rewriting (e.g. WordPress)

Here is an example of classic `.htaccess` which won't work on Scalingo.
You need to replace it with the Nginx configuration following the example.

Classic `.htaccess` example:

```ApacheConf
<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
RewriteEngine On
RewriteBase /
RewriteRule ^index\.php$ - [L]
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
RewriteRule . /index.php [L]
</IfModule>
```

Nginx configuration:

```nginx
location / {
  try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php?$args;
}
```
