---
index: 20
nav: Custom Domain
title: Custom Domain Name
modified_at: 2025-12-15 12:00:00
---


While Scalingo provides a [default public domain name][domains-default] for all
applications, it's generally a good idea to attach a custom domain name to an
application, especially when in production.

Ideally, this custom domain name should allow users reach the application via a
meaningful, easy-to-remember name (at least, compared to the default one
provided by Scalingo).

By default, a maximum of 20 domain names can be attached to an application.
Please get in touch with our Support team if you need more.

## Buying a Domain Name

Domain names can be bought from [registrars] such as [dnsimple], [Gandi], or
[OVH Cloud]. We do **not** sell domain names.

An exhaustive list of registrars can be found on the [ICANN] website.

The process is very similar from one registrar to the other: you have to first
check the availability of the domain name you are interested in. If it is
available, you can *buy* it for a limited amount of time, after which you will
have to renew your subscription.


## Setting Up the Domain Name

Once you own a domain name, the first step consists in making it point to your
application. This step involves editing your domain name [zone file]. Steps may
vary depending on your registrar, and differ depending on whether you want to
setup a [subdomain](#setting-up-a-subdomain), an [apex
domain](#setting-up-an-apex-domain), or a [wildcard
domain](#setting-up-a-wildcard-domain).

### Setting Up a Subdomain

The preferred way to make a subdomain point to your application consists in
creating a `CNAME` record in your [zone file]. This `CNAME` record must point
to the [default domain name][domains-default] provided by Scalingo.

{% note %}
Even if most registrars help setting it up correctly, please **ensure** to use
the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the default domain name, **ending
with a dot**.
{% endnote %}

In the following example, the RR makes the `www` subdomain point to an
application named `my-app`, hosted in the `osc-fr1` region (notice the
dot at the end of `my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io.`).

```
NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
www    10800    IN    CNAME    my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io.
```

### Setting Up an Apex Domain

[Apex domains][domain-apex] are a bit specific, mostly because  most
registrars don't support creating `CNAME` DNS records for them.

- If your registrar supports creating `CNAME` DNS records for apex domains,
  then you can follow the [previous instructions](#setting-up-the-domain-name)
  to make it point to your application.\\
  [Cloudflare] is known to support `CNAME` record for apex domains.

  In such a case, the RR should look like this:
  ```
  NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
  @      10800    IN    CNAME    my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io.
  ```

- Some registrars support fields such as `ALIAS` or `ANAME` to provide the same
  functionality as `CNAME` records. If your registrar supports one of these,
  it's the way to go. Follow the [previous
  instructions](#setting-up-the-domain-name), and make sure to replace `CNAME`
  by either `ALIAS` or `ANAME`.\\
  [dnsimple], [DNS Made Easy] or [PointDNS] are known to support either `ALIAS`
  or `ANAME` records for apex domains.

  In such a case, the RR should look like this:
  ```
  NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
  @      10800    IN    ANAME    my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io.
  ```

- If your registrar doesn't support any of these, you have 3 options left:
  1. Fallback on using a subdomain and a `CNAME` record for your application.
  2. Migrate to another registrar.
  3. Use `A` records:

     A DNS `A` record must point to an IPv4 address. At Scalingo, we don't
     ensure that our [ingress] IP addresses won't change over time.

     **Creating `A` records pointing to our ingress IP addresses is *de facto*
     a risk, so we don't recommend doing so.**

     If you still want to go that path, create an `A` DNS record for each
     [ingress IP address][ingress-ip], depending on the region where your app
     is hosted.

{% note %}
Our ingress IP addresses may change in the future.\\
In such a case, we will communicate about it at least 30 days in advance, so
please make sure to monitor closely our communications.\\
Updating the appropriate zone files accordingly remains your responsibility.
{% endnote %}

### Setting Up a Wildcard Domain

To setup a [wildcard domain][domain-wildcard], please create a `CNAME` record
in your [zone file], [as you'd do for a classic
subdomain](#setting-up-a-subdomain).

In the following example, the RR makes any subdomain of the [apex
domain] point to an application named `my-app`, hosted in the `osc-fr1` region:

```
NAME   TTL      TYPE  FIELD    TARGET
*      10800    IN    CNAME    my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io.
```

If you want Scalingo to manage the [TLS certificate][tls-cert] for the wildcard
domain, make sure to follow [these additional instructions][wildcard-env].


## Attaching the Domain Name

Once your domain name setup, it has to be added to the app hosted on Scalingo.
This step is mandatory: it allows the platform to route requests targeting the
domain name to the corresponding containers.

### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard]
2. Click on the application for which you want to add a custom domain name
3. Click on the **Settings** tab
4. From the **Setting** sub-menu, select **Public Routing**
5. Locate the **Custom Domains** block
6. Click the **Add a domain** button
7. In the popup window, fill the **Name** input
8. Validate by clicking the **Add** button

### Using the Command Line

{% note %}
Our CLI currently doesn't support [wildcard domains][domain-wildcard].
Please use the [dashboard] to attach a wildcard domain to an application.
{% endnote %}

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool][cli]
2. Attach the domain name:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app domains-add <domain name>
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Create a `scalingo_domain` resource block in your Terraform file:
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_domain" my-domain {
     common_name = "www.example.com"
     app = "${scalingo_app.my-app.id}"
   }
   ```
   In this example, we attach the domain name `www.example.com` to the
   application.


## Defining a Canonical Domain

If you have attached one or more custom domains to an application, you may want
to redirect all requests to one of these, which becomes the [canonical
domain][domain-canonical].

The redirection to the canonical domain is made using an HTTP `301 Moved
Permanently` redirection.

{% note %}
When a [wildcard domain][domain-wildcard] is defined for an application, at
least one second domain name must be added to be set as canonical.
{% endnote %}


### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard]
2. Click on the application for which you want to add a custom domain name
3. Click on the **Settings** tab
4. From the **Setting** sub-menu, select **Public Routing**
5. Locate the **Custom Domains** block
6. Locate the domain name you want to set as canonical
7. Click the **star icon** next to it to make it the canonical domain name
8. In the popup window that appears, click the **Apply** button

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool][cli]
2. Set the domain name you want as canonical:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app set-canonical-domain <domain_name>
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Make sure the `canonical` attribute of the corresponding `scalingo_domain`
   resource block is set to `true`:
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_domain" "my-canonical-domain" {
     common_name = "www.example.com"
     app = "${scalingo_app.my-app.id}"
     canonical = true
   }
   ```
   In this example, we attach the domain name `www.example.com` to the
   application and set it as canonical.


*[FQDN]: Fully Qualified Domain Name
*[RR]: Resource Record

[dnsimple]: https://dnsimple.com
[OVH Cloud]: https://www.ovhcloud.com/fr/domains/
[Gandi]: https://www.gandi.net/fr/domain
[ICANN]: https://www.icann.org/registrar-reports/accredited-list.html
[Cloudflare]: https://www.cloudflare.com
[DNS Made Easy]: https://dnsmadeeasy.com
[PointDNS]: https://pointhq.com

[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com

[cli]: {% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}
[registrars]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#registrar
[zone file]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#zonefile
[domain-wildcard]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#wildcard-domain
[domain-apex]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#apex-domain
[domain-canonical]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-overview %}#canonical-domain
[ingress]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-ingress %}
[ingress-ip]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-ingress %}#ingress-ip-addresses
[tls-cert]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/cert/2000-01-01-default %}
[wildcard-env]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/cert/2000-01-01-default %}#using-a-wildcard-domain
[domains-default]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-default %}

