---
index: 1
nav: Overview
title: Overview
modified_at: 2026-01-15 12:00:00
---


Domain names are the front door to applications deployed on Scalingo. They
allow teams to expose services under clear, stable and branded addresses, thus
turning technical endpoints into polished, customer-ready experiences.

While Scalingo seamlessly handles routing, security, TLS, and scalability
behind the scenes, domains let you focus on delivering a reliable presence on
the Internet.


## Understanding Domain Names

To help you better understand domain names, we think it's better to start with
a few definitions:

{:#domain-name} Domain Name
: A domain name is a human-readable address used by people to find a website
  or service on the Internet. It allows humans to type `example.com` instead of
  an hard-to-remember IP address, such as `198.51.100.27`.

{:#registrar} Registrar
: Domain names can be reserved for a few months (sometimes years) from
  companies called **registrars**.

{:#zonefile} Zone File
: A domain name is configured via its **zone file**. A zone file is a text file
  that describes a DNS zone. It contains mappings between domain names and
  resources (such as IP addresses). These mappings are called resource records
  (RR). The registrar from which you have purchased the domain name usually
  provides an interface to edit the corresponding zone file.

  Results of a zone file update can take time to be fully propagated worldwide,
  so please plan your updates accordingly!

{:#apex-domain} Apex Domain
: An apex domain is the main, highest-level domain name that one can own,
  without any subdomains in front of it.

  For instance, `example.com.` is an apex domain. It's made of a Top-Level
  Domain (TLD): `.com.` and a Second-Level Domain (SLD): `example`.

{:#wildcard-domain} Wildcard Domain
: A wildcard domain is a domain configuration that automatically matches
  **any subdomain that doesn't already have a specific record**. They use an
  asterisk (`*`) as a placeholder.

  For instance, `*.example.com` is a wildcard domain, matching
  `www.example.com`, `shop.example.com`, `app.example.com`, or
  `anything.example.com`.

{% note %}
- `*.example.com` does not include `example.com`.
- `*.example.com` usually doesn't cover multiple levels, so it won't match
  `a.b.example.com`.
{% endnote %}

{:#canonical-domain} Canonical Domain
: A canonical domain is the single, preferred version of a domain name that you
  choose to represent your website or service when multiple domains or
  subdomains point to the same content.

  For instance, `example.com`, `www.example.com`, and `app.example.com` may
  point to the very same application. Setting the canonical domain to
  `www.example.com` tells everyone that this is the one true version, and helps
  search engines avoid duplicate content.


## Domain Names at Scalingo

At Scalingo, we offer two main services related to domain names:

- Each application deployed on Scalingo is assigned a [default domain
  name][domain-default], ending in `scalingo.io`, allowing public access to the
  app.
- We also support [custom domain names][domain-custom], for a fully
  personalized experience.


*[TLD]: Top-Level Domain
*[SLD]: Second-Level Domain
*[RR]: Resource Record

[domain-default]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-default %}
[domain-custom]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/domains/2000-01-01-custom %}

