---
title: Configuring SSL/HTTPS access
nav: SSL/HTTPS access
modified_at: 2018-07-25 00:00:00
tags: app ssl http https certificate key pem
index: 21
---

## \*.scalingo.io domain

By default you can access your application using the following domain name:
my-app.scalingo.io.

HTTPS is enabled by default for those domains and we recommend you to use it by
default to ensure the encryption of the requests to your apps.

We provide a valid certificate which is recognized by all modern browsers and
HTTP clients.

If you have a custom domain configured, we provide a valid certificate thanks to
[Let's Encrypt certificate](#automatic-https-certificate-with-lets-encrypt).

You can also choose to use your own certificate. We use **SNI** in such case.
To understand what it is and why it is useful, you can read more here:
[SNI on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication).

## Custom domain

### Automatic HTTPS certificate with Let's Encrypt

You can add [your own domain name]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-domain %}) to
access your application. By default HTTPS is enabled, and fully functional thanks to
[Let's Encrypt certificate](https://letsencrypt.org/).

We automatically generate a certificate for every
domain added to the platform. Let's Encrypt certificates have a 90 days validity. We follow Let's Encrypt
recommendation and renew them every 60 days automatically. You do not need to do anything manually!

If you prefer to use a certificate signed by a different certificate authority, feel free to add
it by following [the instructions](#generate-your-own-certificate-manually).

If you forget to renew your custom certificate and it expires, or if you delete it, a Let's
Encrypt certificate will automatically and immediately replace it. Hence your application will
always be available using HTTPS.

### Limit: number of certificate per domain

The platform is limited by official [Let's Encrypt
quotas](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits).

There is a maximum of 50 generated certificates per domain per week. The **domain** here mentions the root domain, so having a certificate for `www.example.com`, `app.example.com` and `example.com` counts for 3.

#### Let's Encrypt certificate statuses

On the dashboard, you may find your Let's Encrypt certificate with various statuses:

* Pending DNS: when you link a domain name to your application, we wait for it to target our
  infrastructure before generating the certificate. We check the DNS record automatically every 60 seconds.
* Creating: our infrastructure is exchanging messages with Let's Encrypt servers to generate your
  certificate.
* In use: your website is available using HTTPS connections thanks to a Let's Encrypt certificate.
* Not used: your website is available using HTTPS connections thanks to a custom certificate. If it
  expires or if you remove it, your website will be available using HTTPS connections thanks to a
  Let's Encrypt certificate.
* Action required: to achieve the creation of your Let's Encrypt certificates for a wildcard domain,
  you may be asked to do something.
  See [wildcard domain documentation]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-domain %}#wildcard-domain) for more information.

### Generate your own certificate manually

You can add [your own domain name]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-domain %}) to
access your application. By default HTTPS is enabled, and fully functional thanks to
[Let's Encrypt certificate](#automatic-https-certificate-with-lets-encrypt).

If you want to use a custom certificate, signed by a different certificate authority,
you can still add it. Here are the different steps to follow:

{% note %}
  <strong>SSL/TLS certificates are free on Scalingo.</strong>
{% endnote %}

#### 1. Create a RSA key pair and a signing request

```
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -sha256 -nodes -keyout app.key -out app.csr
```

You have to enter different information regarding your certificate, but have
particular look at:

* __Country Name__: It has to be the two letters representing your country following the
[ISO 3166-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2)
* __Common Name__: This is the domain name you want to secure. (Example: `www.example.com`)

Two files have been generated:

* `app.key`: The private key, you have to keep secret
* `app.csr`: The signing request, which has to be signed by a trusted third-party

{% note %}
  This command creates a RSA key of 2048 bytes length, you can adapt this
  value if you wish a stronger key. However, we do not recommend you to use a
  lower encryption key size.
{% endnote %}

#### 2. Submit your request to generate a valid certificate

Your `app.csr` file has to be signed by an external entity. This service is, in most
of the cases, charged by the authority. But some companies provide certificates
for free.

* [Comodo](https://ssl.comodo.com)
* [InstantSSL](https://www.instantssl.com/)
* [Digicert](https://www.digicert.com/ssl-certificate.htm)

Those are examples, a lot of other companies are providing this service.

#### 3. Upload your key and certificate

{% note %}
  Note that both your key and your certificate must be in the [PEM
  format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-enhanced_Electronic_Mail)
{% endnote %}

You can use our [command line utility](http://cli.scalingo.com) or our web dashboard
to upload your key and certificate

With the CLI:

```bash
# If the doman has already been defined
scalingo domains-ssl --cert ./app.crt --key ./app.key www.example.com

# If it is a new domain
scalingo domains-add --cert ./app.crt --key ./app.key www.example.com
```

From our dashboard:

Go to the 'Domain' tab of your application, click on 'Custom certificate' of
the concerned domain. Select the certificate you want to use and the key, then
click on 'Validate'.

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_domains_certificate.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

In both cases the modification is applied instantly.

### How to upload certificate chains

A lot of certificate authorities provide certificate chains or bundles alongside your signed certificate. To upload all those certificates, you have to create one file, with all the certificates concatenated. First add your certificate, then append all the intermediate certificates of the certificate chain.

Example:

```bash
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
.... your certificate
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
.... intermediate certificate 1
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
.... intermediate certificate 2
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

## When it expires or you delete it

If you forget to renew your certificate and it expires, or if you delete it, a Let's
Encrypt certificate will automatically and immediately replace it. Hence your application will
always be available using HTTPS.
