---
title: Application crash
modified_at: 2016-10-06 00:00:00
tags: app crash recovery
---

For various reasons your application can terminate abruptly. Two cases of crash may happen:

## Boot errors

They are detected directly when you deploy your application, if it crashes
before binding the allocated network port, your deployment fails.

{% note %}
  The former version of your application __keeps running__.
{% endnote %}

## Runtime crashes

Two situations are the most common causes of runtime crashes:

* Runtime error of your application (uncaught exception, segfault of a library/runtime)
* Temporary error of an external resource

## Restart policy

When a runtime crash occurred we automatically restart your container. If your application
stopped again in the 5 minutes after being restarted, we won't restart it directly, but
5 minutes later.

{% note %}
  <ul>
    <li>5 additional minutes are added after each crash in the 5 first minutes of runtime.</li>
    <li>A crash which occures after 5 minutes has no effect on the cool down</li>
  </ul>
  <p>
    This limitation has been setup in order to avoid the situation when an
    application try to boot and crashes immediately.
  </p>
{% endnote %}

A limit of __12__ restart operations exist. It means that after 6 hours and 30 minutes,
your application __will not be accessible anymore__ (The last cool-off duration is 1 hour).

## How do I know my app has crashed?

When such an event occurred, you'll receive notifications, as well as your collaborators for the concerned application. You'll receive a notification after the 2nd, 5th and 12th crashes (following the restart policy detailed previously).

It means that if your app crashed once for a temporary reason, it will be automatically restarted. If it does not crash anymore, you will not receive an email. But if it crashes in a loop, you'll get a notification in the minute.

You'll also find the 'crash' events in your app timeline on the dashboard.

## What to do?

We strongly advise you to look at the logs of your application using the web
dashboard or by using the [CLI tool](http://cli.scalingo.com).

According to the information gathered, you should then modify your application to
fix the issues which lead to this instability.

{% note %}
  After a successful deployment, a manual restart, or scaling of your application, we
  cancel any queued restart job, and the cool down time after the next crash is resetted.
{% endnote %}

## Need support?

Don't hesitate to contact us at [support@scalingo.com](mailto:support@scalingo.com).
