---
title: How to Scale Your Application
nav: How to Scale
modified_at: 2016-05-31 00:00:00
tags: app scaling metrics scale
index: 2
---

Scalingo lets you scale your app in two different ways:

* **Horizontal Scaling** (recommended): Use multiple containers for your app,
  incoming requests will be dispatched to all the available containers. It let
  your app handle much more requests in parallel.
* **Vertical Scaling**: Get bigger containers for your app, more RAM memory,
  more CPU, bigger applications will require more resources, that's the goal of
  this scaling operation.

Both forms of scaling are complementary. You will often need to scale
out (horizontal) your application, and to scale up (vertical) to fit the
evolution of the traffic of your app.

## When and why should you use multiple containers?

### Redundancy

With at least two containers, if there is a problem with one of them, it will
be completely transparent for you users as we will redirect the requests to the
others. **We recommend any production application to have at least 2
containers**. The quality of the service we can provide also depends on the
amount of containers you are using, see our [Terms of
Service](https://scalingo.com/tos) for more information.

### Load Balancing

When a lot of people are reaching your app, one container may not be enough to
support the load. Here, memory is not the problem, but parallelism. Most technologies
handle a incoming requests queue. If this queue is not consumed fast enough, users
may wait long time to get the response, and it can even time out. Thus, one
instance of your application may not be able to handle all the incoming
requests. In this case, adding new containers is more important than getting
more memory.

## When and why should you get bigger containers?

Getting bigger containers means scaling vertically your application. It mostly
depends on the size of your app and the memory it consumes. You can get this
data with our [CLI]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %}) with the
following command:

```bash
$ scalingo -a <appname> stats
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
|   NAME   | CPU |      MEMORY      |      SWAP       |
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
| clock-1  | 0%  | 29% 151MB/512MB  | 0%   0B/1.5GB   |
|          |     | Highest: 167MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| web-1    | 1%  | 49% 254MB/512MB  | 0%   4KB/1.5GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 264MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| web-2    | 0%  | 52% 266MB/512MB  | 0%  20KB/1.5GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 280MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| worker-1 | 1%  | 91% 932MB/1024MB | 7% 234MB/3.0GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 1024MB  | Highest: 241MB  |
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
```

You can see here, for each container, how much your app is consuming **in real time**.
If your app **starts swapping**, performance will be **strongly degraded**. Two reasons are
possible:

* The container type is undersized compared to your application and you
  should consider using a larger container size, otherwise the user experience
  of your end-users will be impacted.

* Your application is leaking memory. In this case you'll see your app containers
  using more and more memory over time without any top limit. In this case, getting
  a larger container won't solve the problem, as your app will keep growing.
  You should profile your application and get the source of the leak, fix it and deploy
  a new version of your application.

<blockquote class="bg-info">
  You might want to have a look at our <a href="{% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-autoscaler
  %}">autoscaling feature</a>.
</blockquote>
