---
layout: page
title: Add a Log Drain to your App
nav: Log Drain
modified_at: 2018-06-15 10:00:00
tags: Papertrail Logentries Logmatic Graylog logs integration
---

{% include beta_feature.md %}

## Integration Purposes

When an application starts having a higher traffic, reading logs can be cumbersome. Using a log
management solution to gather the logs from all your applications and all your containers eases your
work when trying to find an information amongst all these lines of logs. A few SaaS solutions exist
such as Logentries, Logmatic.io, Papertrail or Graylog. You can also host such solution on Scalingo.
Here is a tutorial on [how to deploy the ELK
stack](https://scalingo.com/articles/2018/02/23/running-the-elk-stack-on-scalingo.html) on Scalingo.
We also support sending your applications logs using the standard syslog protocol over UDP, TCP or
TCP+TLS.

## Third-party Provider integrations

Our system is also able to send logs to the following SaaS log processing providers:

* Scalingo hosted ELK stack ([how to setup]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %}))
* Datadog
* Logentries
* Graylog
* Papertrail
* Syslog

## Configuration of your Application on Scalingo

As this feature is private beta, you cannot activate logs drain by yourself. You need to add an
environment variable containing the token to the used logs management service, and contact the
support so that we activate the logs drain. In a matter of minutes, your logs flow to the logs
management service.

The format of the environment variable depends on the provider:

* Scalingo hosted ELK stack: `https://USER:TOKEN@logstash-app-name.osc-fr1.scalingo.io`
* Datadog: `datadog://DD_API_KEY`. `DD_API_KEY` is the Datadoog API key you can
    find [here](https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api).
* Logentries: `https://webhook.logentries.com/noformat/logs/TOKEN`
* OVH hosted Graylog: `ovh://:TOKEN@example.com:6514`
* Papertrail: `syslog+tls://logsN.papertrailapp.com:XXXXX`
* Syslog TCP+TLS: `tcp+tls://example.com:12345`
