---
title: Alerts About Application Metrics
nav: Alerts
modified_at: 2018-03-27 00:00:00
tags: app alert metrics
---

Scalingo lets you create alerts based on an application metric. When the metric's value goes above
or below a user-defined limit, Scalingo sends a notification on some specified notifiers: email,
Slack channel, Rocket.Chat...

An alert can be added to an application by going to the "Notifications" tab of your app:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_card.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

## Alert Parameters

When creating a new alert, a list of all the container types of your application is displayed. When
selecting the `web` container type, a list of 7 metrics to monitor is available:

- CPU, RAM and swap: percentage of this resource consumption
- Response time: 95th percentile of the requests response time
- 5xx errors: amount of HTTP errors (status code ranges from 500 to 599)
- RPM and RPM per container: requests per minute (RPM) received by your application. If your
  application is scaled on multiple containers, the RPM per container divides the RPM of the
  application by the amount of containers.

Finally, you need to give a threshold above/below which the alert is triggered.

On the next step, you need to select which one of your application's notifiers will be used
when an alert is triggered.

## Monitoring alert events

Every time an alert is triggered, an event is created. This event appears on the application's
timeline. The user responsible for the operation is labeled `scalingo-platform`:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_timeline.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

If notifiers are defined for this alert, the event is also forwarded to all the subscribing notifiers. On a
Slack channel, the notifications look like this:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_slack_notif.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

An event is also generated when an alert is created or deleted:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_timeline_create_delete.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}
