---
title: Alerts About Application Metrics
nav: Alerts
modified_at: 2018-03-27 00:00:00
tags: app alert metrics
---

Scalingo lets you create alerts based on an application metric. When the metric's value goes above
or below a user-defined limit, Scalingo sends a notification on some specified notifiers. See [this
page]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-notification %}) for more information about the notifiers.

An alert can be added to an application by going to the "Notifications" tab of your app:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_card.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

## Alert Parameters

In order to create a new alert, a few parameters must be provided:

- Container type: can be any container type of an application (e.g. web, clock...).
- Metric:
  1. CPU: percentage of CPU consumption
  1. RAM: percentage of memory consumption
  1. Swap: percentage of swap consumption
  1. Response time: 95th percentile of the requests response time
  1. 5xx errors: amount of HTTP errors (status code ranges from 500 to 599)
  1. RPM: requests per minute (RPM) received by your application.
  1. RPM per container: If your application is scaled on multiple containers, the RPM per container
     divides the RPM of the application by the amount of containers.
- Limit: any float value.
- Send when below: send the alert when metric value is _below_ the limit.
- Notifiers: list of [notifiers]({% post_url
  platform/app/2000-01-01-notification %}) the alert send a notification to.
- Duration before trigger: send the alert when metric value is above the limit
  for the specified duration.

## Monitoring alert events

Every time an alert is triggered, an event is created. This event appears on the application's
timeline. The user responsible for the operation is labeled `scalingo-platform`:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_timeline.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

An event is also generated when an alert is created or deleted:

{% assign img_url = 'https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_alerts_timeline_create_delete.png' %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}
