---
title: Logs
modified_at: 2020-12-31 00:00:00
tags: app logs
index: 18
---

The platform handles 3 types of logs:
* Application logs: it's everything your applications write on `stdout` and `stderr`.
* Router logs: it contains all the connections made to your application.
* Addon logs: it's everything our homemade addons (typically databases) write on `stdout` and `stderr`.

Router logs are stored separately from application logs. You can choose to mix router logs into your application logs for a deeper understanding of your application behavior when it has received external connections.

All those logs are accessible through [Scalingo CLI]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-features %}) or through the web dashboard in the "Logs" tab:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_logs.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

When opening the "Logs" tab, the last 100 lines are displayed and all new lines are automatically streaming to your browser.

If you need a bit of historical logs, you should use the Scalingo CLI with:

```shell
scalingo --app my-app logs --lines <number of log lines>
```

Replace `<number of log lines>` with the amount of lines you want to display.

The Scalingo CLI also lets you fetch the addons' logs. You first need to retrieve the addon ID (starting with `ad-`) then query the logs:

```sh
scalingo --app my-app addons
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+
|   ADDON    |                   ID                    |          PLAN          |
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+
| PostgreSQL | ad-1c48f4a8-0a38-4f75-9a40-4084b8e22743 | postgresql-starter-512 |
+------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+

scalingo --app my-app logs --addon ad-1c48f4a8-0a38-4f75-9a40-4084b8e22743 --lines <number of log lines>
```

These live logs are called **hot logs**: they are the most recent logs of your application or addon. When your application logged more than 50 MiB logs, Scalingo archive them in a log archive. We call them **cold logs**: they are not as recent as the hot logs but can be downloaded for later analysis.

## Logs Archives

All your logs are archived by Scalingo for one year, as required from French law. When your log file grows bigger than 50 MiB, it is archived automatically. It is then available in the Logs Archive. Archived logs are no longer available with the `logs` command of the CLI.

On the dashboard side, logs archives are available in the "Logs" tab, under the "Archives" link:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_logs_archives.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

These archives are also accessible using the CLI:

```
scalingo --app my-app logs-archives
```

## Log Drain

You may want to forward logs to third party providers for high level search and alerting capabilities. This is configurable using our [Log Drain]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-log-drain %}) feature.
