---
index: 10
nav: Ingress
title: Ingress
modified_at: 2026-01-08 12:00:00
---


In computer networking, **ingress** is a term that usually designates traffic
**entering** the organization's network.

**At Scalingo, ingress refers to the traffic coming from the Internet and
entering the platform's infrastructure.**


## Ingress IP Addresses

Our ingress IP addresses are the IP addresses through which incoming traffic
enters the Scalingo platform. They are all externally reachable and act as an
entry point IP for inbound traffic flowing from outside into the Scalingo
network.

{% note %}
We currently **do not** support IPv6, so all ingress IP addresses are IPv4.
{% endnote %}

We have several IP addresses for each region.

### Region `osc-fr1`

- `5.104.101.30/32`
- `109.232.236.90/32`
- `109.232.233.130/32`
- `148.253.75.120/32`

### Region `osc-secnum-fr1`

- `148.253.96.193/32`
- `185.21.194.105/32`
- `80.247.12.255/32`
- `80.247.13.145/32`

{% note %}
Our ingress IP addresses may change in the future.\\
In such a case, we will communicate about it at least 30 days in advance, so
please make sure to monitor closely our communications.
{% endnote %}


## Ingress Specifics

To reduce the attack surface of the platform and to protect our customers'
applications, we actively filter ingress traffic based on multiple criterias.
The idea is to only accept traffic that seems acceptable. This also allows us
to enforce some good practices.

### Zero Cost

At Scalingo, there are **no ingress fees**. This means that all ingress traffic
is free of charge.

### Ports

We only accept requests targeting TCP port `80` (HTTP) and `443` (HTTPS). All
ingress traffic targeting other protocols or ports is silently discarded.

If you use Cloudflare Proxy, TCP ports `80`, `443`, `8080`, and `8443` are
opened from your application's point of view.

### Denylists

We use denylists to filter out traffic originating from IP addresses known to
spread malicious threats, take part of DDOS attacks, etc.

If you think an IP address is wrongly filtered out, please get in touch with
our Support team.

### Bandwidth

Network bandwidth is limited to **20MB/s per container** (or 160Mbit/s). This
limit comes with a **burst of 1.6GB/s per container** (12.8Gbit/s).

### Max. Request Size and Uploads

The request size limit is set to **75MB**. This limit is set on our [frontend
reverse proxies](#reverse-proxy). A [`413 Payload Too
Large`][http-413] HTTP error is returned when attempting to overcome this
limit.

If you have a bigger file to upload, please consider using a third-party
storage facility like Amazon S3 (or any other provider) and upload files
directly to it (with signed-URL for instance).

### Max. Headers Size

The entire header section of a request is limited to a size of **32kB**.\\
In addition, a single header is limited to a size of **8kB**.


[http-413]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}#http-413
