---
index: 20
nav: Egress
title: Egress
modified_at: 2026-01-08 12:00:00
---


In computer networking, **egress** is a term that usually designates traffic
**exiting** the organization's network.

**At Scalingo, egress refers to the traffic coming from inside our
infrastructure and leaving it.**


## Egress IP Addresses

Our egress IP addresses are the IP addresses through which outgoing traffic
leaves the Scalingo platform. They are all externally reachable and act as an
exit point IP for outbound traffic flowing from inside the Scalingo platform
to the outside.

These egress IP addresses can help you identify traffic coming from an app
hosted on Scalingo and reaching another service or network.

{% note %}
We currently **do not** support IPv6. All our egress IP addresses are IPv4.
{% endnote %}

We have several IP addresses for each region, as well as a dedicated domain
name.

### Region `osc-fr1`

All egress (outgoing) traffic from applications hosted in the `osc-fr1` region
comes from the IP addresses resolved by **egress.osc-fr1.scalingo.com**,
currently:

- `171.33.105.206/32`
- `171.33.92.211/32`

This list of IP addresses is subject to change. In any case, the up-to-date,
exhaustive list of output IP addresses is available from [our provider
documentation][outscale-public-ip].\\
Our `osc-fr1` region is hosted on Outscale `eu-west-2` region.

### Region `osc-secnum-fr1`

All egress (outgoing) traffic from applications hosted in the `osc-secnum-fr1`
region comes from the IP addresses resolved by
**egress.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.com**, currently:

- `148.253.96.190/32`
- `148.253.97.14/32`

The list of IP addresses is subject to change. In any case, the up-to-date,
exhaustive list of output IP addresses is available from [our provider
documentation][outscale-public-ip].\\
Our `osc-secnum-fr1` region is hosted on Outscale `cloudgouv-eu-west-1` region.

{% note %}
Our egress IP addresses may change in the future.\\
In such a case, we will communicate about it at least 30 days in advance, so
please make sure to monitor closely our communications.
{% endnote %}


## Egress Specifics

### Zero Cost

At Scalingo, there are **no egress fees**. This means that all egress traffic
is free of charge. We strongly believe that this helps our customers being more
efficient and productive. It also allows them to stay in control of their
budget by eliminating unpredictable, hiden, and frustrating costs.

### Bandwidth

Network bandwidth is limited to 20MB/s per container (or 160Mbit/s). This limit
comes with a burst of 1.6GB/s per container (12.8Gbit/s).


[outscale-public-ip]: https://docs.outscale.com/en/userguide/OUTSCALE-Public-IP-Addresses.html

