---
index: 1
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2026-01-08 12:00:00
---

In a Platform as a Service environment such as Scalingo, **public routing**
refers to the way hosted applications are exposed to the Internet through
publicly accessible network paths.

It designates how the platform connects external (Internet) traffic to the
right application running inside our managed infrastructure. This process is
fully handled by Scalingo in an automatic, fast, and secure manner.

When an application is deployed on Scalingo, the following happens:
- The platform runs your app on our internal infrastructure, in an isolated
  runtime environment.
- It assigns your application a publicly reachable domain name, ending in
  **`.scalingo.io.`**.
- It updates our public routing layer to ensure incoming requests are forwarded
  to the appropriate application containers. It ensures the connection
  between the outside world and our internal runtime environment (where your
  application is running).
- The public routing layer also handles [TLS termination (HTTPS)][tls], [load
  balancing][req-distrib], [rate-limiting], and [automatic
  failover][req-distrib].

In short, public routing turns your isolated application instance into a
publicly consumable service. Networking (DNS, requests forwarding), security
(TLS termination), and scalability (rate-limiting, failover) concerns are all
automatically handled by the platform.

Public routing is a **core component** of a PaaS. It brings a good part of the
magic while sparing our customers a lot of networking annoyances. As such, it's
fully included into our offers.


*[PaaS]: Platform as a Service

[tls]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/cert/2000-01-01-overview %}
[req-distrib]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}#requests-distribution
[rate-limiting]: {% post_url platform/networking/public/2000-01-01-routing %}#requests-queue

