---
title: Managing Your Scalingo for MySQL速 Addon
nav: Managing
modified_at: 2024-03-04 00:00:00
tags: databases mysql addon
index: 5
---


## Scaling (Changing Plan)

You can change your database plan whenever you want. This operation happens
instantly, no manual input is required. When you change the plan, the instances
of your database are stopped and then restarted with the characteristics of the
chosen plan. According to the type of plan you are originally using, the impact
on your application differs:
- **Starter Plans**: Since these plans are not highly available, expect some
  unavailability during which the scale operations are conducted. The duration
  highly depends on the database size (from seconds to several hours).
- **Business Plans**: Thanks to high availability, only a failover occurs
  during the operation. Current connections are stopped and the application has
  to reconnect. It can be transparent or lead to a ~2-5 seconds interruption,
  depending on the driver used by your application and its configuration.

In both cases, once the operation is finished, the application is restarted to
ensure it creates new healthy connections to the database.

{% warning %}
While upscaling (changing for a more powerful plan) is rather safe, you should
take extra care when downscaling: please make sure the new plan can handle all
your data and fits your application workload.
{% endwarning %}

### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on the application for which you want to scale the Scalingo for
   MySQL速 addon
3. Click on the **Resources** tab
4. Locate the **Addons** block and click on the **...** button
5. From the dropdown menu, select **Change plan**
6. Select the new plan
7. Click the **Finish** button
8. Validate by clicking the **Confirm plan change** button

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, list the plans available for `mysql`:
   ```bash
   scalingo addons-plans mysql
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +-----------------------+---------------+
   |             ID        |     NAME      |
   +-----------------------+---------------+
   | mysql-sandbox         | Sandbox       |
   | mysql-starter-512     | Starter 512M  |
   | mysql-starter-1024    | Starter 1G    |
   ...
   ```
3. Locate the `ID` corresponding to the plan you want to scale to (for example
   `mysql-business-1024`)
4. List the addons attached to your application:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app addons
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +-------+-----------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+
   | ADDON |                   ID                    |       PLAN        | STATUS  |
   +-------+-----------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+
   | MySQL | ad-871546ad-943a-4929-9770-ec7c839d65f5 | mysql-starter-512 | running |
   ...
   ```
5. Locate the `ID` corresponding to the addon you want to scale
6. Change plan using the `addons-upgrade` sub-command:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade <addon_ID> <plan_ID>
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   -----> Addon ad-d0aa540a-5ed2-41f8-8bbe-91e3aff6623b has been upgraded
          Message from addon provider: Database plan is being changed
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Update the `plan` property of the corresponding Resource block in your
   Terraform file to scale the addon:
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_addon" "my-db" {
     provider_id = "mysql"
     plan = "mysql-business-1024"
     app = "${scalingo_app.my-app.id}"
   }
   ```
   In this example, we switch the `my-db` resource attached to the `my-app`
   application to a PostgreSQL Business 1024 addon.
2. Run `terraform plan` and check if the result looks good
3. If so, run `terraform apply`


## Upgrading

Upgrading your MySQL速 addon consists in changing the database version for
a newer one.

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we
take some time to study it and test it thoroughly before making it available.
Upgrading to this new version is still your choice. We don't do it
automatically.

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}

Your database needs to be upgraded to the latest minor version before having
access to the next major version. For instance, let's imagine that your version
is `2.3.x` and you want to upgrade to `3.1.x`. If there is a `2.5.x` version
available, you first need to upgrade your database to the `2.5.x` version
before upgrading to the `3.1.x` version.

During the upgrade, a downtime can unfortunately happen, depending on the Plan
you are using and the upgrade:
- **Starter Plans**: In all cases, we have to stop the node to upgrade it,
  causing an inevitable downtime.
- **Business Plans**: We are able to achieve zero-downtime upgrade of
  minor version. In the case of major version upgrade, we need to completely
  stop the nodes, hence causing an inevitable downtime.

In both cases, once the operation is finished, the application is restarted.


### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-mysql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Overview** tab
3. Locate the **Database Upgrade** block
4. If an upgrade is available, the text in the block explains what will be
   done.
5. To launch the upgrade, click the **Upgrade to ...** button

{% note %}
Upgrading a MySQL速 addon to a newer version is only available through the
database dashboard.
{% endnote %}


## Managing Users

By default, Scalingo creates a user with read and write permissions on your
database with the following queries:

```sql
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON <username>.* TO '<username>'@'%'
```

### Creating a New User

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-mysql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Users** tab
3. Fill the **Add a new user** form:
   - Fill a username
   - Fill the corresponding password twice
4. (optional) If you want to restrict this user to read only abilities, make
   sure to check the **Read only** checkbox
5. Validate by clicking the **Add User** button

{% note %}
Creating a new database user is only available from the database dashboard.
{% endnote %}

### Deleting an Existing User

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-mysql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Users** tab
3. Locate the user you want to remove
4. Click the **Delete** button next to the user
5. Confirm the removal

{% note %}
Removing a database user is only available from the database dashboard.
{% endnote %}
