---
title: MySQL
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2022-04-28 00:00:00
tags: databases mysql addon
index: 1
---

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

MySQL is the official addon provided by Scalingo, details on the available plans can be found [here](https://scalingo.com/databases/mysql). This addon gives your app instant access to a MySQL database running in its own Docker container.


## Adding MySQL to Your App

You can add the MySQL addon through the dashboard or through the command line
interface. The capacity of your database is elastic, you will be able to upgrade
it later.

### Through the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on the [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to add
4. In the dialog select the database plan you need
5. Validate your choice

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_addons_mysql.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Through the Command-Line Interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-add mysql mysql-starter-1024

-----> Addon mysql has been provisionned
       ID: my-app-3030
       Modified variables: [DATABASE_URL SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL]
       Message from addon provider: Database successfully created
```

This command will provision the application `my-app` with a `mysql-starter-1024` MySQL database plan.

To find out what other plans are available:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-plans mysql
```

## MySQL Cluster Setup

If using a Business plan for your MySQL addon, we setup a MySQL InnoDB cluster.
This cluster has the following configuration:

- three MySQL nodes in a private network: the amount of memory per node depends
  on the plan,
- a couple of MySQL Routers as entrypoint to the MySQL private network: one is
  the leader and the other is just here as a backup in case of failing leader.

The communications in the private network are encrypted.

## Getting Your Connection URI

Once the addon is provisioned, 2 environment variables are added to your app:
`SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` and `DATABASE_URL`. To find out how to use it in your code
please refer to [Application environment]({% post_url
platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}).

In most cases, you can pass the variable directly to the client library you are
using in your code. But sometimes the library requires a specific URI format,
you'll need to add a little bit of code to suit the library.

You can get environment variables from the dashboard or the command line interface.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on the [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com)
2. Click on **Environment** tab
3. `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` is displayed

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_dashboard_environment_mysql.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### From the Command-Line Interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app env | grep MYSQL

DATABASE_URL=$SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL
SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL=mysql://my_app_3030:CaUrq1MdUkAzCSEq-1Fg@my-app-3030.mysql.a.osc-fr1.scalingo-dbs.com:30999/my_app_3030
```

### Ruby on Rails Specific

`DATABASE_URL` is an alias to `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL`, the Ruby buildpack will read
the value of `DATABASE_URL` and create the `database.yml` configuration file
accordingly.

If you're using the <em>mysql2</em> gem, you will need to copy the value of
`SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` into `DATABASE_URL` and change the scheme part from
`mysql://` to `mysql2://`.


## Remote Access Your Database

If you need to access your database from other places than your app please
follow the [Access your database]({% post_url
platform/databases/2000-01-01-access %}) guide.

### Force TLS Connections

MySQL [support
TLS](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/encrypted-connections.html) to
encrypt all of its network traffic between the client and the
server.

By default, all new MySQL databases have TLS activated. If you want to connect
to it, you have nothing to do. The `mysql` client will automatically first try
to connect using TLS, and if it fails will try without TLS. If you want to
ensure it connects using TLS, you can use the `--ssl-mode` option:

```shell
mysql --ssl-mode REQUIRED -u <user> --password=<password> -h <host> -P <port> dbname
```

To activate TLS, you need
to restart the database.  Any action leading to the restart will activate TLS
(e.g. plan update, upgrade of the database).

TLS is an option, you can still access your database without it if needed.

If you want to force connections to your database to use TLS, head to the
database dashboard and click on the toggle button:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_force_tls.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

Note that you must have configured your application to use TLS when connecting
to the database.

Some providers like Google Data Studio will require a client certificate when TLS
is enabled. In this case, contact us via the in app chat or via email at
[support@scalingo.com](mailto:support@scalingo.com).

## Changing Plans

You can upgrade or downgrade your database plan whenever you need it. This
operation happens instantly thanks to Docker containers and no manual input is
required. When you change the plan, your database will be stopped then
restarted on a new host with new parameters of the chosen plan. During the
operation the connection is dropped between your app and the database. Finally,
after the operation is successful, the related app will be restarted.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on the [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to change
4. In the dialog select the plan you want to upgrade/downgrade to
5. Validate your choice

### From the Command-Line Interface

To upgrade or downgrade your addon the sub-command is the same: `addons-upgrade`.

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4 mysql-starter-2048
```

In this example, `ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4` is the ID of the
addon, and `mysql-starter-2048` is the plan we want to upgrade to.

To find out the addon ID:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons

+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
|  ADDON |                   ID                    |        PLAN         |
+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
| MySQL  | ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4 | mysql-business-256  |
+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
```

## Database Dashboard

The MySQL dashboard is the central place for administrative tasks such as:

- Monitor database and system stats
- Upgrade the database engine version
- Activate database specific features
- Manage database users
- Manage backups

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mysql_overview.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Database Upgrade

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we will
provide it as soon as possible. You will have the choice to upgrade your
database with one click through your database dashboard.

If your database uses a business plan, we are able to achieve zero-downtime
upgrade.

On single node database, we need to stop the node in order to upgrade it which
induces a downtime. The duration of this downtime depends on the amount of data
in your database.

When upgrading from MySQL 5.7 to 8.0, please check the mandatory
[prerequisites]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-mysql-8-prerequisites %}).

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}


### Container Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">CPU usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Current CPU usage.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Memory usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free memory. Highest is the maximum memory recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Swap usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free swap. Highest is the maximum swap recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

### Database Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database connections</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Number of currently open and maximum connections.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Data size</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Logical space reported by the database.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database on disk size</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Effective physical space used.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>


## Backups

{% include database_backups.md %}

{% note %}
If your database has multiple nodes, the dump is done on the secondary node.
{% endnote %}

### Download Automated Backups

Automated backups are listed in the database specific dashboard.

1. Go to your app on the [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Click **Link to dashboard** which will take you to the **MySQL dashboard**
4. Click on **Backups** tab
5. Download the backup you want

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mysql_backups.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Manual Database Backup

If you wish to manually backup your database, please follow [How to dump and
restore my MySQL database on Scalingo]({% post_url
databases/mysql/2000-01-01-dump-restore %}) guide.

{% include encryption_at_rest.md %}

## Web Administration Tools

### phpMyAdmin

[phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) is a web application to administrate MySQL databases.

The application is available on the platform to use alongside your databases:

{% include phpmyadmin_endpoints.md %}

#### How to login?

The server, username and password fields must be filled with the information in
your `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` environment variable. Its format is:
`mysql://<user>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<db name>`.

Note that the *server* input should be in the form *host:port*.

### Adminer

See dedicated page about [Adminer]({% post_url platform/databases/2000-01-01-adminer %})
