---
title: Node.js
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2024-11-04 12:00:00
tags: nodejs
index: 1
---

Node.js is supported by Scalingo, furthermore, custom support has been added to
manage the [__Meteor__]({% post_url languages/meteorjs/2000-01-01-start %})
framework.

## Standard Node.js Applications

### Node.js App Detection

The file `package.json` should be present at the root of the project.

### Dependencies Installation

The dependencies of your project are installed either with the [npm package
manager](https://www.npmjs.com/) or the [Yarn package
manager](https://yarnpkg.com/).

If a `yarn.lock` file is present at the root of your project, yarn will be used
to install the dependencies and run scripts, otherwise npm will build the
dependencies during the deployment.

If a `package-lock.json` file is present at the root of your project and you
are using npm version 6 or higher, Scalingo will use `npm ci` (for
`clean-install`) to install your dependencies. Otherwise Scalingo will fallback
to `npm install`.

{% note %}
  You can specify the version of yarn you want to use by defining it in the
  `package.json` file, with the key `engines.yarn`.
{% endnote %}

### Private Dependency

{% note %}
  Yarn does not handle private modules, if you use them, keep using npm
{% endnote %}

#### NPM Private Modules

First you need to create a read-only token with the NPM account you want to authenticate:

```
npm token create --read-only
```

Then set this token as environment variable (replace the 0-value by the token obtained in the previous command):

```bash
scalingo env-set NPM_TOKEN=00000000-0000-0000-0000-00000000
```

Add the following NPM configuration file `.npmrc` to the root directory of your project:

```
//registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=${NPM_TOKEN}
```

Add this file and commit it in your Git repository, the environment variable will be automatically used during the build.

### Configuring NPM

Sometimes a project needs custom npm behavior to set up proxies, use a different registry, etc. For such behavior, simply include an .npmrc file in the root of your project.

```
# .npmrc
registry = 'https://custom-registry.com/'
```

npm will also read the configuration from any environment variable starting with NPM_CONFIG.

{% note %}
If NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION is true, npm will automatically run all scripts in a subshell where NODE_ENV is 'production'.
{% endnote %}

#### Private Modules from SCM (GitHub/GitLab/etc.)

Your private module should be fetched from the SCM service through SSH. You can specify it this way:

```
"package-name": "git+ssh://git@<SCMhostname>/<workspace>/<repo>.git#master"
```

To authenticate to the SCM service, you need to use our [SSH Private Key
Buildpack]({% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-ssh-key %}),
this buildpack will let you setup a private SSH key securely in the build
environment.

### devDependencies Installation

By default, dependencies present in the `devDependencies` field are installed. At the end of the deployment, `devDependencies` are pruned. Hence only production dependencies are left in the image used for the runtime.

`devDependencies` can be totally ignored and not installed at all by setting `NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION=true` npm or `YARN_PRODUCTION=true` with Yarn 1.

#### Skip Pruning

If you need access to packages declared under `devDependencies` at runtime, you may
consider declaring those as `dependencies`. If required at runtime, they are not really development dependencies.

If you still need access to packages declared under `devDependencies` after the
build has finished without moving those in `dependencies` - to be used in a different
buildpack for example - then you'll need to use yarn v2+ and set `YARN2_SKIP_PRUNING=true`.

| npm/yarn | env var               | install dev deps | pruned |
|----------|-----------------------|------------------|--------|
| npm      | none                  | yes              | yes    |
| npm      | NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION | no               | -      |
| yarn     | none                  | yes              | yes    |
| yarn     | YARN_PRODUCTION       | no               | -      |
| yarn 2+  | none                  | yes              | yes    |
| yarn 2+  | YARN2_SKIP_PRUNING    | yes              | no     |

### Ensure you're Tracking all your Dependencies

It is important to ensure you are tracking all the dependencies of your project
in the `package.json` file. Otherwise your app may build but will potentially
crash during its runtime, failing to find a dependency.

A common mistake is to run `npm install` without the `--save` flag. In this
case the dependency is installed in the `node_modules` directory, but nothing
is tracked in the `package.json` file.

You should also avoid to install global packages (i.e. using the `-g` flag). In
this case packages are installed at the system level and are not tracked for
your project.

In a nutshell: you should always use the following command when adding a
dependency:

```
npm install --save <module>
```

{% note %}
  If the module contains a binary like `grunt` or `gulp`, they will be
  installed in the `node_modules/.bin` directory, keeping them local and
  trackable. On Scalingo, the `node_modules/.bin` directory is added to your
  `PATH`, so you can directly use them.
{% endnote %}

### Do not Track Modules with Git

When working locally on your code, after running `npm install`, a directory
`node_modules` containing the dependencies of your application is created. You
should not check this directory in your Git repository. If the dependency is
listed in your `package.json` file, it will automatically be installed during
the deployment of your application.

Adding these files to Git will create confusion and unnecessary noise in your
code history and we consider it's a good practice to keep it clean, only add
the useful code (the code of your project). Moreover there is an issue with
dependencies which build binaries during their installation. If you add these
binaries to your repository, it may create incompatibility with Scalingo
runtime environment.

The good method to avoid checking in these files is to add the following
content in a `.gitignore` file at the root of your project and commit this
file:

```text
node_modules
bower_components
# Any other file created by grunt/gulp/webpack builds
```

Once done, Git will ignore these directories when making commits.

### Specifying a Node.js Version

In your `engines` section of your `package.json` file, you can specify a
version of Node.js to use.

If no version is defined, Scalingo installs the latest version of v22.
Available versions of Node.js are available here:
[https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/).

It is exactly the same with `npm` if you want to use a specific version of it.

```json
{
  "name": "my-app",
  "engines": {
    "node": "22",
    "npm": "6"
  }
}
```

### Node.js App Startup

What we use in order of priority

1. `Procfile` at the root of your project
2. The field `.scripts.start` defined in your `package.json`

Example of `package.json`:

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

### Node.js Build Hooks

If your application has a build step that you would like to run when you
deploy, you can use the `build` step defined in the `package.json`:

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js",
    "build": "grunt build"
  }
}
```

If the `package.json` has a `build` script which needs to be customized for
Scalingo, you should define a`scalingo-postbuild` step:

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "build": "grunt build",
    "scalingo-postbuild": "grunt build --prod",
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

{% warning %}
If the `scalingo-postbuild` hook is defined, the `build` step will **not** run.
{% endwarning %}

You may also want to run a custom command before the installation of
dependencies. This is possible thanks to commands named `scalingo-prebuild`:

```json
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "scalingo-prebuild": "node prebuild.js",
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

{% note %}
You can disable the build phase for your app by setting the environment
variable `NPM_NO_BUILD=true`.
{% endnote %}

### Custom Cache Folder

By default, Scalingo stores the directories `bower_components` and `node_modules` at the root of the
project in the deployment
cache. But you might need to add different folders to this cache. You can override these defaults by
specifying the `cacheDirectories` (or `cache_directories`) key at the root of your `package.json`
file.

For example, if your application has a client and a server in the same repository, you can specify
these folders to store them in the deployment cache with:

```json
"cacheDirectories": ["client/node_modules", "server/node_modules"]
```

## Meteor Application

If a `.meteor` file is detected at the root of your project, your app will
be considered as a Meteor application.

See the [Meteor applications documentation]({% post_url
languages/meteorjs/2000-01-01-start %})

## Framework Requiring to Serve Static Files

Some front-end JavaScript frameworks (such as React Native, Ember.js, Ionic,
Next.js, GatsbyJS) build static files and need a minimal web server to serve
them. In order to do so, first update your `package.json` to at least
specify the following scripts:

```json
{
  // …
  "scripts": {
    "build": "<build script>",
    "start": "node server.js"
  },
  // …
}
```

The `build` script depends on the framework you use:

- Ember.js: `ember build --environment=production`
- GatsbyJS: `gatsby build`
- Ionic: `ionic-app-scripts build`
- Next.js: `next build`

The `server.js` file is a minimal web server such as the one presented [here]({%
post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-static-files-hosting %}) to serve the file
generated during the build phase.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/nodejs-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/nodejs-buildpack).

## Next.js

Out of the box, Next.js is configured with a `package.json` which looks like:
```json
{
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "next": "^10.0.4",
    "react": "^17.0.1",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.1"
  }
}
```
To make it work on Scalingo, you need to provide the port.
Otherwise, you would get a timeout error.
```
....
 Waiting for your application to boot...
 !   Error deploying the application
 !   → Timeout: my-app took more than 60 seconds to boot
....
```
To fix this issue, modify the `start` script by adding `-p $PORT`
```
{
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start -p $PORT"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "next": "^10.0.4",
    "react": "^17.0.1",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.1"
  }
}
```

### Standalone Mode
The Next.js built image can be quite large, easily exceeding 500MB. If you encounter issues with the image size, you can try "standalone" mode.

More information here: [Next.js in standalone mode]({% post_url languages/nodejs/2000-01-01-nextjs-standalone %}).


## Vite

In `package.json`, you need
```json
  "scripts": {
    "start": "vite --port $PORT",
    // others scripts
    }
  }
```

In the `vite.config` (or `vite.config.ts`) file you need to add the following
```typescript
  server: {
    host: "0.0.0.0",
  },
```

As a note, `vite --port $PORT` may compile components, depending on your configuration. If it does, it leads to a very long first HTTP request that may even crash your container. In this case, in the `package.json`, replace the `start` rule content to use `node server.js` (see section `Framework Requiring to Serve Static Files`) or `vite preview --port $PORT`.

## Angular

Please refer to the Angular [dedicated page]({% post_url languages/nodejs/2000-01-01-angular %}) for instructions on how to deploy such an application on Scalingo.

## Yarn Known Issues

### Catch `SIGTERM` In an Application Started With Yarn

You may want to catch the `SIGTERM` signal in your Node.js application:

```js
process.on('SIGTERM', () => {
  log.notice('"SIGTERM" received');
  process.exit(0)
});
```

The good practice is to start the application by defining a `start` script in the `package.json`. For example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

Then define the `web` process in the Procfile. Example of Procfile content:

```yaml
web: yarn run start
```

The problem with this approach is that Scalingo sends a `SIGTERM` signal to stop the application. But Yarn do not correctly forward this signal to the started process.

The solution is to change the content of the Procfile to directly start the Node.js process:

```yaml
web: node server.js
```
