---
title: Common Features of our Databases Addons
nav: Common Features
modified_at: 2025-12-23 12:00:00
index: 2
---


All our databases addons share a common set of powerful features designed to
ensure the security of your data, and spare you the difficulties of maintaining
all the necessary tools and services. We keep your data safe and available.

The following table lists all these shared features, with specific values for
each class of service, when applicable. A short description of each feature is
available after the table. \
Please check the dedicated *Features* page of each database addon for a list of
features specific to each addon.


| Feature                                       | Starter  | Business |
| --------------------------------------------- | :------: | :------: |
| [Service Availability](#service-availability) | 98%      | 99.96%   |
| [Upgrade](#upgrade)                           | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Plan Change](#plan-change)                   | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Logs](#logs)                                 | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Metrics](#metrics)                           | Yes      | Yes      |
| [TLS](#tls)                                   | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Encryption at Rest](#encryption-at-rest)     | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Scheduled backups](#backups)                 | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Manual backups](#backups)                    | 10       | 50       |
| [Database Dashboard](#database-dashboard)     | Yes      | Yes      |
| [Maintenance Windows](#maintenance-windows)   | Yes      | Yes      |

### Service Availability

At Scalingo, our objective is to make your data available 24/7. Yet, in our
imperfect computing world, we all know downtimes can happen. We still commit by
contract to a precise service availability for each calendar month, depending
on the plan you chose.

These values roughly translate into maximum downtimes of:
- 864 min for a month of 30 days for Starter plans
- 17 min for a month of 30 days for Business plans

Above which we will grant financial compensation.

Please check our [Service Level Agreement][sla] for all details.

### Upgrade

All our databases can be upgraded to more recent versions once they are made
available on the platform. The delay between an official release and the
availability on the platform depends on the addon: some upgrades are quite
straightforward, while some others require more work and testing. Upgrading is
usually a matter of clicking a button.

Please check the dedicated *Upgrading* page of each database addon for
further details about the upgrade process, and its potential consequences (best
practices before proceeding, expected downtime, etc.)

### Plan Change

Scalingo allows you to change your addon plan whenever you want, and in any way
you see fit. \
Please keep in mind that this remains your responsibility, and that it may have
bad consequences on your database, especially when switching for a less
powerful plan. We strongly advise to follow our best practices guidelines
before changing a database plan.

Please check the dedicated *Changing Plan* page of each database addon for
further details about the plan change process, and its potential consequences
(best practices before proceeding, expected downtime, etc.)

### Logs

All our databases addons come with logs, allowing you to monitor your addon
health. They are fully available, either from the [database
dashboard][database-dashboard], from the [command line][cli] or from our
[api][api-db-logs]. [Log drains][log-drains] are available for databases too.

All the logs we have are made available for you, we don't hide anything.

Please check the dedicated *Monitoring and Auditing* page of each database
addon for further information related to logs and metrics.

### Metrics

All our databases addons come with metrics allowing to evaluate the
performances of your database. These metrics include CPU usage, memory usage,
disk usage and disk i/o for all database nodes. For business plans, metrics of
the cluster gateways are also available.

Metrics are available from the [database dashboard][database-dashboard], from
the [command line][cli] and from our [api][api-db-metrics].

Please check the dedicated *Monitoring and Auditing* page of each database
addon for further information related to logs and metrics.

### TLS

Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a cryptographic protocol designed to provide
privacy (confidentiality), integrity, and authenticity to communications over a
network. To do so, the protocol encrypts data transiting between the database
and the client.

TLS is always available on Scalingo, yet never strictly enforced. Depending on
the database, it may not be enabled by default.

We usually advise to enable it.

Moreover, we also encrypt all communications between the members of cluster:
- From the gateways to the primary instance.
- From the primary instance to the other members of the cluster (when in this
  case).
- Between the cluster orchestrator and its database for PostgreSQL databases.

### Encryption at Rest

All databases provisioned on Scalingo have encryption at rest enabled.
Encryption at rest leverages a feature of the Linux Kernel, named `dm-crypt`,
allowing to encrypt data at the disk level. The algorithm used is
`aes-xts-plain64` with a key size of 256 bits and hashed using `SHA-256`. This
method is considered secure and standard in the industry. To reduce the attack
surface, each instance of each database has its own cryptographic key to
protect its data, so getting access to one key wouldn't allow an attacker to
get plain data from another database. The keys are stored in a database which
is itself encrypted and protected by authentication.

### Backups

Our Starter and Business plans include automated daily backups, as well as the
ability to trigger a manual one whenever needed. Backups are encrypted and
duplicated in the three availability zones of the region where the database is
hosted. We also manage the backups lifecycles to comply with legal obligations.

Our [Backup Policies][backup-policies] page provides an exhaustive view of our
backup policies (retentions, etc.). We encourage you to have a look at it.

Please also check the dedicated *Backing Up* page of each database addon for
further details about the backup process we setup for you.

### Database Dashboard

Please see our [dedicated page][database-dashboard] to learn about the Database
Dashboard.

### Maintenance Windows

Please see our [dedicated page][maintenance-windows] to learn about Maintenance
Windows.


[sla]: https://scalingo.com/service-level-agreement
[api-db-logs]: https://developers.scalingo.com/databases/logs
[api-db-metrics]: https://developers.scalingo.com/databases/metrics

[cli]: {% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}
[log-drains]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-log-drain %}
[database-dashboard]: {% post_url databases/about/2000-01-01-database-dashboard %}
[backup-policies]: {% post_url databases/about/2000-01-01-backup-policies %}
[maintenance-windows]: {% post_url databases/about/2000-01-01-maintenance-windows %}
