---
title: Access your database
modified_at: 2017-09-08 00:00:00
tags: databases
index: 1
---

There are three different solutions to access Scalingo's databases:

* Remote console: an interactive console is started and you access it directly.
* Encrypted tunnel: if you want a full access to the database, you have to build an
  SSH-encrypted tunnel, then you will be able to access the database as if it was running locally.
  You have to use this solution if you want to import/export data.
* Direct encrypted access to the database.

## Interactive remote console

{% note %}
You need to have Scalingo's <a href="http://cli.scalingo.com" target="_blank">command line interface</a> to
achieve this action.
{% endnote %}

The following commands let you open a console for the database
of your choice. Note that your should have added the appropriate addon from
your application dashboard prior to run one of these commands.

```bash
# Open a console using the `mysql` client
scalingo --app my-app mysql-console

# Open a console using the `psql` client
scalingo --app my-app pgsql-console

# Open a console using the `mongo` client
scalingo --app my-app mongo-console

# Open a console using the `redis-cli` client
scalingo --app my-app redis-console
```

## Connect to the database

By default, databases hosted on Scalingo are not directly available on the Internet.

To access your database remotely from your workstation you need to setup an
encrypted connection: either via an encrypted tunnel or by forcing TLS connection to your database and enabling direct Internet access.

### Encrypted Tunnel

Since we don't want unencrypted network traffic from/to your databases, the
DB tunnel provides an encrypted way to access them.  However, it does not
provide any additional security layer. We will only verify that your public key
is registered on our platform. The DB tunnel is just an encrypted bridge
between your laptop and our infrastructure.

Another possibility is to make your database [accessible from
internet](#direct-access).

#### Requirements

You need to have Scalingo's [command line interface](http://cli.scalingo.com) to
achieve this action.

#### Build the tunnel

By running the following command, an encrypted SSH tunnel will be built between you and your database.

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app db-tunnel MONGO_URL
Building tunnel to <dbhost>:<dbport>
You can access your database on '127.0.0.1:<localport>'
```

{% note %}
  We use MONGO\_URL in the example, but it can be REDIS\_URL or DATABASE\_URL according to the database you're using.
{% endnote %}

#### Use any client to read, import or export your data

Once the tunnel has been built, you can use any tool you need by connecting it to the
`127.0.0.1:<localport>` host.

{% note %}
  Credentials to connect to the database are still the same, so read them from `scalingo --app my-app env`
{% endnote %}

#### Example

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app db-tunnel MONGO_URL
Building tunnel to <dbhost>:<dbport>
You can access your database on '127.0.0.1:10000'

# In another terminal
$ scalingo --app my-app env | grep MONGO_URL
MONGO_URL=mongo://user:secret@<dbhost>:<dbport>/database

$ mongo -u user -p secret localhost:10000/database
$ mongodump -u user -p secret -h localhost:10000 -d database
```

If you activated the force TLS option, you should add both options `--ssl` and
`--sslAllowInvalidCertificates` to the `mongo` command.

#### Build the tunnel with the OpenSSH client

Our command line tool handles it in a simple command, but you might want to use the tunnel without it. With
the standard OpenSSH client, the way to build the tunnel is:

```
ssh -L <local port>:<database host>:<database port> git@scalingo.com -N
```

The database host and database port can be found in the environment variable representing the connection string
of your database instance. Get it from the dashboard or with the `env` command of the CLI. It should look like:

* `SCALINGO_<TYPE>_URL`

The value of this variable is an URL which represents:

```
scheme://user:password@host:port/database_name
```

As stated previously, you need to get the `host` and `port` from the URL.

Example:

If the environment variable is the following:

```
SCALINGO_POSTGRESQL_URL=postgresql://user:secret@my-db.postgresql.dbs.appsdeck.eu:30000/my-db
```

The command to run is:

```
ssh -L 10000:my-db.postgresql.dbs.appsdeck.eu:30000 git@scalingo.com -N
```

Then you connect on `localhost:10000` to reach your Scalingo database. (You'll still need to authenticate to the
database with the credential you can get from the connection string)

### Direct access

It is possible to make your database reachable from anywhere on the Internet. Head to your database dashboard. From there you
first need to force TLS connections to your database. You can then toggle " Direct Internet Access" to make it reachable
from the Internet.
