---
title: Scalingo Database Addons
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2020-09-25 00:00:00
tags: index-databases
index: 0
---

You applications need databases to store your data. As we believe your data
should be located geographically close to your application servers we support
the most common types of database.

We ensure your database is located at the same location as your applications.
It provides the best performance and latency possible. Moreover you know where
your data are.

## Database Types

### SQL

* [PostgreSQL]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-start %})
* [MySQL]({% post_url databases/mysql/2000-01-01-start %})

### NoSQL

* [MongoDB]({% post_url databases/mongodb/2000-01-01-start %})
* [Redis]({% post_url databases/redis/2000-01-01-start %})
* [Elasticsearch]({% post_url databases/elasticsearch/2000-01-01-start %})
* [InfluxDB]({% post_url databases/influxdb/2000-01-01-start %})

## Backups Retention Policy

{% include database_backups.md %}

## Encryption at Rest

All databases created after the 6th of January 2019 have encryption at rest
enabled. In other words, all your data is encrypted before being stored on
disk.

Encryption at rest on our database offer leverages a feature of the Linux Kernel
allowing to encrypt data at the disk level named `dm-crypt`. The algorithm used
is `aes-xts-plain64` with a key size of 256 bit and hashed using SHA-256. This
method is considered secure and standard in the industry. To reduce the attack
surface, each instance of each database has its own cryptographic key to protect
its data, so getting access to one key wouldn't allow an attacker to get plain
data from another database. The keys are stored in a database which is itself
encrypted and protected by authentication.

## Communication With TLS

We enable for all database types the possibility to connect to them using TLS.
By default, you can connect both with or without TLS to your database. You can
also enforce all connections to use TLS by activating the "Force TLS
Connections" feature in the web dashboard of your addon:

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/screenshot_database_mongo_force_tls.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

{% note %}
The default behaviour is slightly different for Elasticsearch and InfluxDB.
These databases cannot listen to both TLS and non-TLS connections at the same
time. Hence, by default, these database do not listen on the TLS port. You need
to enable the "Force TLS Connections" feature to reach these databases using
TLS.
{% endnote %}

Moreover, we also encrypt all communications between the members of cluster:

- from the gateways to the leader,
- from the leader to the followers,
- between the cluster orchestrator and its database for PostgreSQL databases.

## Connection Timeouts

Most of our high availability setups contain a HAProxy as entry point to the actual database nodes. This HAProxy has a few timeouts configured which may impact your application, especially if you reuse connections. The concerned databases are:

- Elasticsearch:
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 1 minute.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 2 minutes.
  - Maximum allowed time to wait for a complete HTTP request: 5 seconds.
- PostgreSQL
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 1 day.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 30 minutes.
  - Inactivity timeout on the client side for half-closed connections: 5 minutes.
- Redis
  - Timeout when the client is inactive: 5 minutes.
  - Timeout when the server is inactive: 5 minutes.
  - Inactivity timeout on the client side for half-closed connections: 1 hour.
