---
title: Scala
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2021-09-16 00:00:00
tags: scala
index: 1
---

Scala is officially supported on Scalingo.

It uses [sbt](https://github.com/sbt/sbt) 0.11.0+.

## Usage

Example usage:

```bash
$ ls
Procfile build.sbt project src

$ scalingo create my-app

$ git push scalingo master
...
-----> Scala app detected
-----> Building app with sbt
-----> Running: sbt compile stage
```

The buildpack will detect your app as Scala if it has the
`project/build.properties` and either `*.sbt` in the root directory or
`project/*.scala` or `.sbt/*.scala`. It vendors a version of sbt and your
populated `.ivy/cache` into your container. The `.ivy2` directory will be
cached between builds to allow for faster build times.

## JDK Compatibility

Be careful when you update the Java runtime of your application.
If the Scala version does not support the version of Java you specified
the build can most likely fail.

Please use a Scala version compatible with the Java version you want to use to fix the build. Refer to
[this official Scala documentation page](https://docs.scala-lang.org/overviews/jdk-compatibility/overview.html) to know which versions are compatible.

## Clean builds

In some cases, builds need to clean artifacts before compiling. If a clean
build is necessary, configure builds to perform clean by setting
`SBT_CLEAN=true`:

```bash
$ scalingo env-set SBT_CLEAN=true
SBT_CLEAN has been set to true.
```

All subsequent deploys will use the clean task. To remove the clean task, unset `SBT_CLEAN`:

```bash
$ scalingo env-unset SBT_CLEAN
SBT_CLEAN has been unset.
```

## Common Issues

### Not a Valid Command: stage

Deployment logs:

```
[error] Not a valid command: stage
[error] Not a valid project ID: stage
[error] Expected ':' (if selecting a configuration)
[error] Not a valid key: stage
[error] stage
[error]      ^
```

In this situation, your project lacks the package
[`sbt-native-packager`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-native-packager). This plugin
aims at packaging Scala applications into various kind of destination packages.

You need to add the depdencendy in your `project/plugins.sbt` file:

```
addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" % "sbt-native-packager" % "1.3.18")
```

Then once done, enable the packaging into a Java app for your project (in your
`build.sbt`):

```
enablePlugins(JavaAppPackaging)
```

That's it, the `stage` command will now be found by our deployment system.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/scala-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/scala-buildpack).
