---
title: Managing Your Scalingo for PostgreSQL® Addon
nav: Managing
modified_at: 2024-06-21 00:00:00
tags: databases postgresql addon
index: 5
---


## Scaling (Changing Plan)

You can change your database plan whenever you want. This operation happens
instantly, no manual input is required. When you change the plan, the instances
of your database are stopped and then restarted with the characteristics of the
chosen plan. According to the type of plan you are originally using, the impact
on your application differs:
- **Starter Plans**: Since these plans are not highly available, expect some
  unavailability during which the scale operations are conducted. The duration
  highly depends on the database size (from seconds to several hours).
- **Business Plans**: Thanks to high availability, only a failover occurs
  during the operation. Current connections are stopped and the application has
  to reconnect. It can be transparent or lead to a ~2-5 seconds interruption,
  depending on the driver used by your application and its configuration.

In both cases, once the operation is finished, the application is restarted to
ensure it creates new healthy connections to the database.

{% warning %}
While upscaling (changing for a more powerful plan) is rather safe, you should
take extra care when downscaling: please make sure the new plan can handle all
your data and fits your application workload.
{% endwarning %}

### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on the application for which you want to scale the Scalingo for
   PostgreSQL® addon
3. Click on the **Resources** tab
4. Locate the **Addons** block and click on the **...** button
5. From the dropdown menu, select **Change plan**
6. Select the new plan
7. Click the **Finish** button
8. Validate by clicking the **Confirm plan change** button

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, list the plans available for `postgresql`:
   ```bash
   scalingo addons-plans postgresql
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +----------------------------+---------------+
   |             ID             |     NAME      |
   +----------------------------+---------------+
   | postgresql-sandbox         | Sandbox       |
   | postgresql-starter-512     | Starter 512M  |
   | postgresql-starter-1024    | Starter 1G    |
   ...
   ```
3. Locate the `ID` corresponding to the plan you want to scale to (for example
   `postgresql-business-1024`)
4. List the addons attached to your application:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app addons
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+---------+
   |   ADDON    |                   ID                    |          PLAN          | STATUS  |
   +------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+---------+
   | PostgreSQL | ad-871546ad-943a-4929-9770-ec7c839d65f5 | postgresql-starter-512 | running |
   ...
   ```
5. Locate the `ID` corresponding to the addon you want to scale
6. Change plan using the `addons-upgrade` sub-command:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade <addon_ID> <plan_ID>
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   -----> Addon ad-d0aa540a-5ed2-41f8-8bbe-91e3aff6623b has been upgraded
          Message from addon provider: Database plan is being changed
   ```

### Using the Terraform Provider

1. Update the `plan` property of the corresponding Resource block in your
   Terraform file to scale the addon:
   ```tf
   resource "scalingo_addon" "my-db" {
     provider_id = "postgresql"
     plan = "postgresql-business-1024"
     app = "${scalingo_app.my-app.id}"
   }
   ```
   In this example, we switch the `my-db` resource attached to the `my-app`
   application to a PostgreSQL Business 1024 addon.
2. Run `terraform plan` and check if the result looks good
3. If so, run `terraform apply`


## Upgrading

Upgrading your PostgreSQL® addon consists in changing the database version for
a newer one.

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we
take some time to study it and test it thoroughly before making it available.
Upgrading to this new version is still your choice. We don't do it
automatically.

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}

Your database needs to be upgraded to the latest minor version before having
access to the next major version. For instance, let's imagine that your version
is `2.3.x` and you want to upgrade to `3.1.x`. If there is a `2.5.x` version
available, you first need to upgrade your database to the `2.5.x` version
before upgrading to the `3.1.x` version.

During the upgrade, a downtime can unfortunately happen, depending on the Plan
you are using and the upgrade:
- **Starter Plans**: In all cases, we have to stop the node to upgrade it,
  causing an inevitable downtime.
- **Business Plans**: We are able to achieve zero-downtime upgrade of
  minor version. In the case of major version upgrade, we need to completely
  stop the nodes, hence causing an inevitable downtime.

In both cases, once the operation is finished, the application is restarted.

### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-postgresql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Overview** tab
3. Locate the **Database Upgrade** block
4. If an upgrade is available, the text in the block explains what will be
   done.
5. To launch the upgrade, click the **Upgrade to ...** button

{% note %}
Upgrading a PostgreSQL® addon to a newer version is only available through the
database dashboard.
{% endnote %}

### Details About Actions During a Major Upgrade

This section details the actions executed during a major upgrade (e.g. from PostgreSQL® 14 to PostgreSQL® 15):
1. The entire cluster is stopped. The database is unreachable.
2. `pg_upgrade` is executed on the primary node. A pessimistic estimation of the duration of this operation is 1 minute per 10 GiB.
3. The primary node is restarted. The database is reachable again. The application can normally use the database.
4. A base backup is asynchronously done to make [point-in-time recovery]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-backing-up %}) possible again.
5. The follower is built from scratch, based on the primary node data.

## Managing Users

By default, Scalingo creates a user with read and write permissions on your
database with the following queries:

```sql
GRANT CREATE ON SCHEMA public TO <username>
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE <database> TO <username>
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO <username>
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL SEQUENCES IN SCHEMA public TO <username>
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR USER <database> IN SCHEMA public GRANT ALL ON TABLES TO <username>
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR USER <database> IN SCHEMA public GRANT ALL ON SEQUENCES TO <username>
```

### Listing Users

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-postgresql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Users** tab
3. The list of available users is displayed under the **User Management**
   section

#### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, run the following command to list the users:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon postgresql database-users-list
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```text
   +----------------+-----------+-----------+---------------------+
   |    USERNAME    | READ-ONLY | PROTECTED | PASSWORD ENCRYPTION |
   +----------------+-----------+-----------+---------------------+
   | my_app_4553    | false     | true      | SCRAM-SHA-256       |
   | my_app_4553_rw | false     | false     | MD5                 |
   | my_app_4553_ro | true      | false     | MD5                 |
   +----------------+-----------+-----------+---------------------+
   ```
   In this example, we can see that the database has 3 users available. One has
   been created along with the addon and is protected, which means it can't be
   removed. Among the two others, one can only read data from the database.
   We can also see the password encryption algorithm.


### Creating a New User

The following restrictions apply when creating a new user, regardless of the
method used:

- Username:
  - Must be between 6 and 32 characters long
  - Can only contain alphanumerical characters and underscores (`_`)
  - Must start with a letter
- Password:
  - Must be between 8 and 64 characters long.
  - Must not contain the character `"` or `'`

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-postgresql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Users** tab
3. Fill the **Add a new user** form:
   - Fill a username
   - Fill the corresponding password twice
4. (optional) If you want to restrict this user to read only abilities, make
   sure to check the **Read only** checkbox
5. Validate by clicking the **Add User** button

#### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. From the command line, run the following command to create a new user:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon postgresql database-users-create <username>
   ```
   Optionally, if you want to restrict this user to read only abilities, use
   the `--read-only` flag:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon postgresql database-users-create --read-only <username>
   ```
3. Set the user password:
   - Either chose a password and confirm it
   - Or let the platform generate a password by leaving the field empty

   The output should look like this:
   - If you set a password:
   ```text
   User "my_user" created.
   ```
   - If you let the platform generate a password:
   ```text
   User "my_user" created with password "YANs3y07m5_KJC2MSDGebh8tx1lliFWh2Yb239zVqGQvbElWDjIN7QWspVH92Ul8".
   ```

### Updating a User Password

{% note %}
Updating a User Password is only available from the command line
{% endnote %}

#### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. Update the user password with the following command:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon postgresql database-users-update-password <username>
   ```
3. An interactive prompt asks you for a password you want to attribute to your user:
   - Either chose a password and confirm it
   - Or let the platform generate a password by leaving the field empty
   The output should look like this:
   - If you set a password:
   ```text
   User "my_user" created.
   ```
   - If you let the platform generate a password:
   ```text
   User "my_user" created with password "YANs3y07m5_KJC2MSDGebh8tx1lliFWh2Yb239zVqGQvbElWDjIN7QWspVH92Ul8".
   ```

{% note %}
Protected users password cannot be updated
{% endnote %}

### Deleting a User

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [database dashboard]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-getting-started %}#accessing-the-scalingo-for-postgresql-dashboard)
2. Click the **Users** tab
3. Locate the user you want to remove
4. Click the **Delete** button next to the user
5. Confirm the removal


#### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. Remove the user with the following command:
   ```bash
   scalingo --app my-app --addon postgresql database-users-delete <username>
   ```


## Managing Extensions

PostgreSQL® is a database engine which is extensible thanks to a large set of
extensions. A lot of them are installed alongside your PostgreSQL® instance,
but you need to enable those manually according to your needs.

Please refer to the Overview page to get the [list of available extensions]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-overview %}#available-extensions).

### Enabling an Extension

#### Using the Command Line

1. Access your database using the [Interactive Remote Console]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-accessing %}#using-the-interactive-remote-console)
2. From the PostgreSQL® console, run the following command:
   ```sql
   CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS <extension_name>;
   ```
   The output should look like this:
   ```bash
   CREATE EXTENSION
   my_app_4553=>
   ```

{% note %}
Enabling an extension for your PostgreSQL® is only available from the command
line.
{% endnote %}
