---
title: Scalingo for PostgreSQL® Overview
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2024-06-14 09:00:00
tags: database postgresql addon
index: 1
---

## PostgreSQL®

PostgreSQL® is a free, open-source, community-managed object-relational
database management system focusing on SQL compliance and extensibility. It is
well-known for its performances, reliability and robustness, making it a very
powerful database, able to handle small to huge workloads.

Besides the core features (ACID transactions, views, triggers, foreign keys,
...) PostgreSQL® also offers solutions for more specialized usages, such as
object storage with the native `jsonb` format, for specific dataset kinds,
such as geographic datasets with the PostGIS extension, for time-series
datasets with TimescaleDB or for vector similarity search thanks to the
`pgvector` extension.


## Scalingo for PostgreSQL®

Scalingo for PostgreSQL® is our official PostgreSQL® addon. [We have several
plans available](https://scalingo.com/databases/postgresql#database-compare),
which you can choose of depending on your needs and budget. As always, a free
plan is available for you to test our offer.

### Features

All our plans are fully managed. They allow you to enable the available
extensions, and allow you to scale your database to another plan.

They also include access to metrics and logs, allowing for quick and easy
monitoring and auditing. For more information regarding this topic, please [see
our dedicated page]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-monitoring %}).

From a security point of view, they all come with a TLS connection and
encryption at rest.

{% note %}
  Starting December 20th 2023, every new PostgreSQL database defaults with the
  `SCRAM-SHA-256` hash algorithm for users' passwords. You can learn more in
  the [linked security bulletin]({% post_url security/bulletins/2024-05-06-SSB-2024-002 %}).
{% endnote %}

In addition to the above, Starter plans include daily Periodic backups, as
well as 7-days Point-in-time Recovery (PiTR) backups. All backups are encrypted
and stored externally. For more information regarding this topic, please
[see our dedicated page]({% post_url databases/postgresql/2000-01-01-backing-up %}).

For the most demanding environments, our Business plans include a fully-managed
cluster made of 2 PostgreSQL® nodes (one primary and one replica) and 2 HAProxy
(one active and one standby) as entrypoint to your cluster private network.
The communication between the PostgreSQL® nodes is encrypted. Choosing such a
plan drastically lowers the risk of unavailability, be it during a maintenance
operation (database upgrade, for example) or because of a platform issue.

### Life-Cycle

The PostgreSQL® project releases new major versions annually, introducing new
features and performance improvements. At Scalingo, we ensure compatibility
with these major versions, typically making them available on our platform
about one year after their initial release.

While the PostgreSQL® community supports a major version for up to five years
after its initial release, Scalingo supports each major version on our platform
for three years, providing minor upgrades that include critical bug fixes and
security patches. After this period, we gradually deprecate oldest versions to
ensure security, performance, and operational efficiency.

#### Available Versions

Currently, the supported major versions of PostgreSQL® on the Scalingo platform
are `13`, `14`, and `15`.

|          | Version           | Comment |
| -------- | ----------------: | ------- |
| **`15`** | up to `15.8.0-1`  | default |
| `14`     | up to `14.13.0-2` |         |
| `13`     | up to `13.16.0-2` |         |

The default version when provisioning a Scalingo for PostgreSQL® addon is
**`15.8.0-1`**.

{% note %}
Please get in touch with our Support team if you need to provision a Scalingo
for PostgreSQL® addon with a specific version.
{% endnote %}

### Available Extensions

{% include database_postgresql_extensions.md %}

### Billing

Billing of your PostgreSQL® addon is done on a minute basis.

If your database disk usage exceeds the threshold set on your plan, the
over-quota is billed per GB-hour ([see our FAQ for further details](https://scalingo.com/databases/postgresql)).

The prices are detailed on [our dedicated page](https://scalingo.com/databases/postgresql).
