---
title: Scalingo for InfluxDB®
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2022-04-28 00:00:00
tags: databases influxdb addon
index: 1
---

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

Scalingo for InfluxDB® is the official InfluxDB® addon provided by Scalingo, details on the available plans can be found [here](https://scalingo.com/databases/influxdb). This addon gives your app instant access to an InfluxDB® database.

## Adding Scalingo for InfluxDB® to your app

You can add the Scalingo for InfluxDB® addon through the **Dashboard** or through the **command line interface**. The capacity of your database is elastic, you will be able to upgrade it later.

### Through the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to add
4. In the dialog select the database plan you need
5. Validate your choice

### Through the command-line interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-add influxdb 1g

-----> Addon influxdb has been provisionned
       ID: my_app_3707
       Modified variables: [INFLUX_URL SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL]
       Message from addon provider: Database successfully created
```

This command will provision the application `my-app` with a `1g` Scalingo for InfluxDB® database plan.

To find out what other plans are available:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-plans influxdb
```


## Getting your connection URI

Once the addon is provisioned, 2 environment variables are added to your app: `SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL` and `INFLUX_URL`. `INFLUX_URL` is an alias to `SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL`. To find out how to use it in your code please refer to [Application environment]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}).

In most cases, you can pass the variable directly to the client library you are using in your code. But sometimes the library requires a specific URI format, you'll need to add a little bit of code to suit the library.

You can get environment variables from the dashboard or the command-line interface.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Environment** tab
3. `SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL` is displayed

### From the command-line interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app env

INFLUX_URL=$SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL
SCALINGO_INFLUX_URL=http://sample_influxdb_3707:YANs3y07m5_KJC2MSDGebh8tx1lliFWh2Yb239zVqGQvbElWDjIN7QWspVH92Ul8@my-app-3707.influxdb.a.osc-fr1.scalingo-dbs.com:31061/sample_influxdb_3707
```

## Remote access your database

If you need to access your database from other places than your app please
follow the [Access your database]({% post_url
platform/databases/2000-01-01-access %}) guide.

### Force TLS Connections

InfluxDB® [support
TLS](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.2/administration/https_setup) to
encrypt all of its network traffic between the client and the server.

InfluxDB® cannot listen to connections with and without TLS. If you want to
encrypt communications with your Scalingo for InfluxDB® databases, you need to force all
connections to use TLS.
To activate Force TLS connections, go to your database dashboard Overview, in the TLS/Internet access card, enable Force connections using TLS.

Note that you must have configured your application to use TLS when connecting
to the database.

When in force TLS mode, you must specify the `influx` client to connect to your
database using HTTPS with the `-ssl` option:

```shell
> influx -ssl -unsafeSsl -username <user> -password <password> -host <host> -port <port> -database dbname
```
The `--unsafeSsl` option is mandatory as the generated certificates for your
databases are
[self-signed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-signed_certificate).

Some existing databases may not have yet TLS support. To activate TLS, you need
to restart the database. Any action leading to the restart will activate TLS
(e.g. plan update, upgrade of the database).

## Changing plans

You can upgrade or downgrade your database plan whenever you need it. This
operation happens instantly thanks to Docker containers and no manual input is
required. When you change the plan, your database will be stopped then
restarted on a new host with new parameters of the chosen plan. During the
operation the connection is dropped between your app and the database. Finally,
after the operation is successful, the related app will be restarted.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to change
4. In the dialog select the plan you want to upgrade/downgrade to
5. Validate your choice

### From the command-line interface

To upgrade or downgrade your addon the sub-command is the same: `addons-upgrade`.

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade sample_influxdb_3707 2g
```

In this example, `sample_influxdb_3707` is the ID of the addon, and `2g` is the plan we want to upgrade to.

To find out the addon ID:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons

+-------------------+----------------------+------+
|       ADDON       |          ID          | PLAN |
+-------------------+----------------------+------+
| InfluxDB | my_app_3707          | 1g   |
+-------------------+----------------------+------+
```

## Database dashboard

To access to the Database Dashboard, go to your resource Dashboard and then, in the overview, click on dashboard in addons card, on the concerned addon.
The Scalingo InfluxDB® dashboard is the central place for administrative tasks such as:

- Monitor database and system stats
- Upgrade the database engine version
- Activate database specific features
- Manage database users
- Manage backups

### Database Upgrade

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we will try to provide it as soon as possible. You will have the choice to upgrade your database with one click through your database dashboard.

This operation is similar to changing your database plan; your database will be stopped and
restarted with the new database version. When this operation finishes, your application will be
restarted.

{% note %}
Your database needs to be upgraded to the latest minor version before having access to the next major version.
For instance, your version is 2.3.X and you want to upgrade to 3.1.X. If there is a 2.5.X version, you need to upgrade it to the 2.5.X first.
{% endnote %}

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}


### Container Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">CPU usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Current CPU usage.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Memory usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free memory. Highest is the maximum memory recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Swap usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free swap. Highest is the maximum swap recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

### Database Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Data size</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Size of your data provided by InfluxDB®</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database on disk size</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Effective physical space used.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>


## Backups

{% include database_backups.md %}

### Download Periodic Backups

Periodic backups are listed in the database specific dashboard.

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Click **Link to dashboard** which will take you to the **Scalingo for InfluxDB® dashboard**
4. Click on **Backups** tab
5. Download the backup you want

### Restoring a Backup

Follow our guide: [How to dump and restore my Scalingo for InfluxDB® database on Scalingo]({% post_url databases/influxdb/2000-01-01-dump-restore %})

{% include encryption_at_rest.md %}

## Add Retention Policies

InfluxDB® provides a way to automatically delete records older than a certain date called retention
policy:

```
CREATE RETENTION POLICY "one_hour" ON "tweets" DURATION 1h REPLICATION 1 DEFAULT
```

Creating retention policy is not available to simple database users. If you wish to create one,
you can log into your database dashboard, and go to the "Advanced" tab.

## Removing a Measurement

Your user is not admin on the Scalingo for InfluxDB® database. Hence, removing a measurement
with `DROP MEASUREMENT` leads to an error:

```
> DROP MEASUREMENT mymeasurement
ERR: error authorizing query: my_app_3707 not authorized to execute statement 'DROP MEASUREMENT mymeasurement', requires admin privilege
```

Hence you should use the `DROP SERIES FROM` command:

```
DROP SERIES FROM mymeasurement
```

## Control Memory Usage

To reduce the memory usage of your InfluxDB® database, you can leverage a combination of both continuous queries and retention policies:

- Use a continuous query to aggregate data to a larger time step. It can be created from the InfluxDB® CLI.
- Use a retention policy to remove old unaggregated data. It can be created from your database dashboard.

If you are looking at reducing the memory usage, big tag cardinality also induces some memory issues. InfluxDB® has the [`SHOW CARDINALITY`](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.6/query_language/spec/#show-cardinality) command to help you debug that.
