---
title: Python
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2025-12-29 12:00:00
tags: python
index: 1
---

The Python language is officially supported on the platform.

## Detection

To ensure our deployment system considers your application as a Python
application, a file `Pipfile`, `requirements.txt`, `poetry.lock` or `uv.lock`
should be present at the root of your project, defining the dependencies of
your app.

## Python Versions

### Availability

The following versions of Python are available:

| Python Version | `scalingo-20` (EOL) | `scalingo-22`   | `scalingo-24`   |
| -------------- | ------------------- | --------------- | --------------- |
| **`3.14`**     | Unsupported         | up to `3.14.2`  | up to `3.14.2`  |
| **`3.13`**     | up to `3.13.3`      | up to `3.13.11` | up to `3.13.11` |
| **`3.12`**     | up to `3.12.10`     | up to `3.12.12` | up to `3.12.12` |
| **`3.11`**     | up to `3.11.12`     | up to `3.11.14` | up to `3.11.14` |

{% include scalingo_20_deprecation_note.md %}

### Selecting a Version

The default Python version on all stacks is the latest `3.13` version.
You can, however, instruct the platform to use another version.

The buildpack looks for a Python version in the following places (in descending
order of precedence):

- The `runtime.txt` file (deprecated)
- The `.python-version` file (recommended)
- The `python_full_version` field in the `Pipfile.lock` file (Pipenv users
  only)
- The `python_version` field in the `Pipfile.lock` file (Pipenv users only)

{% warning %}
The `runtime.txt` file is deprecated. If your app uses it, we recommend
switching to a `.python-version` file instead, since it’s more widely supported
by other tooling in the Python ecosystem.
{% endwarning %}

To instruct the platform to use a specific Python runtime, add a
`.python-version` file to your app’s root directory and declare the Python
version number to use in it.

This version can be either:

- The major Python version such as `3.12` (recommended)
- The full Python version such as `3.12.7`

{% note %}
We usually recommend to specify only a major version (such as `3.13`) so that
your app automatically gets the latest security updates when it's built.
{% endnote %}


## Dependencies

### Recommended: pipenv

When the project is using `pipenv` and contains a **Pipfile** and a
**Pipfile.lock** files, the following command is used to install dependencies:

```
pipenv install
```

### Legacy: requirements.txt

If a `requirements.txt` file is present in your application, the dependencies
will be installed respecting this file with:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Alternative: Poetry

If your project uses `poetry` and contains a **poetry.lock** file, the following command is used to install dependencies:

```
poetry sync --compile
```

## Frameworks

We handle most of the common frameworks. Obviously, Django is among them. You need to
configure your application to bind the port defined by the environment variable `$PORT`.

* [Getting Started with Django]({% post_url languages/python/django/2000-01-01-start %})

## Specific Python Buildpack Hooks

You may want to trigger custom actions after a successful deployment. The [postdeploy hook]({%
post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}) is exactly what you need. But your
application may require some actions to be executed during the deployment.

The Python buildpack can execute two hooks: before and after the installation of Python and its
dependencies. They must be located in the `bin` root folder of your application and be named
`pre_compile` and `post_compile`.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack).

## WEB_CONCURRENCY

The default level of concurrency is automatically defined, depending on the amount of memory available in the container running the app:

| Container Size | Memory (MB) | Default Concurrency |
| -------------: | ----------: |-------------------: |
| S              | 256         | 1                   |
| M              | 512         | 2                   |
| L              | 1024        | 4                   |
| XL             | 2048        | 8                   |
| 2XL            | 4096        | 16                  |

For further details about this calculation, please see the [WEB_CONCURRENCY.sh](https://github.com/Scalingo/python-buildpack/blob/master/vendor/WEB_CONCURRENCY.sh) script of the Python buildpack.

To override the automatically defined value, set the `WEB_CONCURRENCY` environment variable to the desired value.
