---
title: FAQ
modified_at: 2016-05-27 00:00:00
category: internals
tags: internals faq
---

**Q: When and why should you get bigger containers?**

Getting bigger containers means scaling verticaly your application. It mostly
depends of the size of your app and the memory it consumes. You can get this
data with our [CLI]({% post_url 2015-09-18-command-line-tool %}) with the
following command:

```bash
$ scalingo -a <appname> stats
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
|   NAME   | CPU |      MEMORY      |      SWAP       |
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
| clock-1  | 0%  | 29% 151MB/512MB  | 0%   0B/1.5GB   |
|          |     | Highest: 167MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| web-1    | 1%  | 49% 254MB/512MB  | 0%   4KB/1.5GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 264MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| web-2    | 0%  | 52% 266MB/512MB  | 0%  20KB/1.5GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 280MB   | Highest:   0B   |
|          |     |                  |                 |
| worker-1 | 1%  | 91% 932MB/1024MB | 7% 234MB/3.0GB  |
|          |     | Highest: 1024MB  | Highest: 241MB  |
+----------+-----+------------------+-----------------+
```

You can see here, for each container, how much your app is consuming **in real time**.
If your app **starts swapping**, performance will be **strongly degraded**. Two reasons are
possible:

* The container type is undersized compared to your application and you
  should consider using a larger container size, otherwise the user experience
  of your end-users will be impacted.

* Your application is leaking memory. In this case you'll see your app containers
  using more and more memory over time without any top limit. In this case, getting
  a larger container won't solve the problem, as your app will keep growing.
  You should profile your application and get the source of the leak, fix it and deploy
  a new version of your application.

**Q: When and why should you use multiple containers?**

Horizontal scaling, meaning adding containers instead of getting bigger
containers, provides the following:

* **Redundancy**: with at least two containers, if there is a problem with one
of them, it will be completely transparent for you users as we'll redirect the
requests to the others. We recommend any production application to have at least
2 containers.

* **Load balancing**: when a lot of people are reaching your app, one
container may not be enough to support the load. Here, memory is not the
problem, but parallelism. One instance of your application may not be able
to handle all the incoming requests. In this case, adding new containers
is more important than getting more memory. We'll automatically dispatch
requests among the available containers of your app.

**Q: What happen when a server of the platform is unavailable (crash, fire, hardware problem)?**

If one of our servers is detected as unavailable, our internal scheduler will
dispatch the containers running on this server, all around the cluster.

* If the app is using one container, it will be unavailable the time for it
  to be restarted on another host.
* If the app is using two or more containers, they are necessarily
  running on different hosts, as a result others containers will still be
  present to respond to end users http requests while the container is restarted
  on a new server.

It's for this reason that the uptime SLA is different, either you have 1
container or more. You'll find details about these rules in our [Terms of
Service](https://scalingo.com/tos)

**Q: What happens if a complete Datacenter is taken down (electricity issue, fire…)?**

In the case a full datacenter gets unavailable, we've setup, with our hardware provider,
a recovery plan able to resume the activity in another DC. Application and
databases data are replicated which let us restart all containers in a second DC
as fast as we can. In this, downtime is unavailable, but proccesses have been setup
to recuce it and recover your apps the fastest possible way.
