---
title: Procfile
modified_at: 2014-12-01 00:00:00
category: internals
tags: internals process types procfile
index: 0
---

## Definition

The Procfile is a way to define how the platform will try to start your containers.
In this file, you can define all the different process you would like to run in your
project. It is commonly used to define how to start workers which will consume
asynchronous jobs.

A Procfile is basically a text file using the YAML format describing how to start
each type of container for your app. It has to be located at the root of your project.
Environment variables will be interpolated.

```yaml
web: bundle exec rails server -p $PORT -e $RAILS_ENV
worker: bundle exec sidekiq -e $RAILS_ENV
```

By default, when you first try to deploy your application, we'll try to
launch the `web` process. We try to determine it without your help, but in
some cases it is required to define it, as in the previous example. If your
application requires a `Procfile` and you haven't defined it, your deployment
will fail and a log entry will attest the lack of Procfile.

The standard syntax is:

```yaml
<container type>: <command>

container type: should contain letters and digits only
command: any command line which can includes environment variables
```

## Using in development

To reduce the environment gap between the development and the production, it
is important to execute the same processes in development and in any deployed
environment.

To achieve this different tools exist. The most famous is `foreman`. A little
ruby `gem` executing and displaying the output of all the processes defined in your
Procfile.

```bash
└> cat Procfile 
web: bin/project
worker: bin/project -worker

└> foreman start
17:52:56 web.1    | started with pid 10663
17:52:56 worker.1 | started with pid 10664
17:52:56 web.1    | 2014/12/01 17:52:56 Listen HTTP requests on :5000
17:52:56 worker.1 | 2014/12/01 17:52:56 Starting Asynchronous worker
```

To install it: `gem install foreman`

Alternatives to foreman:

* [honcho](https://github.com/nickstenning/honcho)
* [goreman](https://github.com/mattn/goreman)
