---
title: Routing
modified_at: 2017-06-08 00:00:00
category: platform
order: 5
tags: reverse-proxy routing http https timeout websocket internals
---

## Requests scheduling

Each of our front web servers is applying a strict round-robin scheduling over the different
containers of your application.

## Headers

* `X-Forwarded-For`: IP from the end user
* `X-Real-Ip`: IP from the end user
* `X-Forwarded-Proto`: Either `http` or `https`
* `X-Forwarded-Port`: Either 80 or 443
* `X-Request-ID`: UUID to identify the request, will be set if not existing

_The HTTP library/framework you're using may downcase all the header names, be cautious_

<blockquote class="bg-info">
  Guide: <a href="/internals/detecting-https-requests.html">Detecting HTTPS requests</a>
</blockquote>

### Example

If you want to have a look to those headers: here is an application which dumps
them: https://http-env.scalingo.io/

## HTTPS support

[HTTPS support]({% post_url app/2015-04-01-ssl %}) is included by default. It is managed by application. When a custom domain name is added, our [Let's Encrypt integration]({% post_url app/2016-12-23-letsencrypt %}) will generate a valid certificate for this domain name to get valid HTTPS automatically.

## Uploads - max request size

The request size limit is set to **75MB**, if you've bigger file to upload, you should consider
to use a third-party storage facility like Amazon S3 (or any other provider) and upload
files directly to it (with signed-URL for instance).

## Long running connections - SSE - Websockets

Long running connections and websockets are completely supported, but they are under
the same constraint timeout as any other kind of request.

## HTTP/2

HTTP/2 is enabled by default for all applications. If the client supports it and is reaching the servers with HTTPS, the connection will be upgraded to HTTP/2 by our routing nodes.

## Sticky Sessions

Sticky session is currently only enabled for Meteor applications, it will be
available as an option for any application in the future.

## Timeouts

Your application has to accept the connection within the 30 seconds and has 30
seconds to send the first data to the client in the 30 seconds. If one of these
conditions is not respected, our servers will return a 504 Gateway Timeout
error to the end user.

* Connection timeout: 30s
* Read timeout: 30s

These rules also apply to the long running connections like websockets. Ensure
your application is sending at least one ping every 29 seconds to keep the connection
open, otherwise it will be stopped.
