---
title: Our base docker image
modified_at: 2016-08-05 00:00:00
category: internals
tags: docker, image, builder, buildpack
---

Every application deployed on scalingo are built over our custom image. This
image is open source and can be found on the docker hub under the name
[scalingo/builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/scalingo/builder/). The builder
image is used for all applications hosted on the platform, as a result, it is a
*generic image* which is *unspecialized*. That's why it's based on a stable
**Ubuntu LTS** environment (currently 14.04 LTS).

The build process
-----------------

Each time any user deplous a new release of their application, a new container
is created based on the `scalingo/builder` image. The build of the app and their
dependencies are done via a single script executing the buildpack(s). Once done,
this generate a unique layer added to the builder image. So when we send it to
the repository, only a single layer is sent.

Installed libraries
-----------------

We've installed different libraries and softwares which are commonly used in the
buid process or used by human when running
[one off container](http://doc.scalingo.com/app/tasks.html).

You'll find:

* Build essentials utility (GCC, make, autotools, ...)
* Curl, git, telnet, ssh, ssh-client, openssl, dnsutils, sqlite
* NodeJs, Ruby, Perl, Python, Java
* ImageMagick
* Mysql, Postgresql MongoDB, Redis clients and development libraries

Not all application will use these library but we've considered that managing
a set of builder image instrad of only one isn't worth it.

The advantage of using a single builder image is that **once it has been fetched
on a hosting node, we're done**. Even if we we sacrfice a few megabytes of disk
space, when a new container start, only the application layer is fetched and
and nothing else.
