---
title: Scalingo Docker Image Addon
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2016-05-30 00:00:00
tags: docker images download feature
index: 1
---

## Introduction

Thanks to this addon, you'll be able to get back the **Docker Images** that have been built when deploying your application in our infrastructure.

Each time you push code to Scalingo, a *build* is triggered resulting in the construction of a Docker Image. When this build phase is successful we try to *deploy* this **Docker Image** by trying to run it on our cloud. This addon lets you download every Docker Image that has been built by Scalingo.

## Use Cases

Because the Docker image is the exact same one we are running in our cloud, you can use it to debug your production code or as a **pledge of reversibility**.

You can also use Scalingo as a **Docker Integration Platform**. You push your code from one side and get a
generic Docker Image on the other. You can then use Scalingo for your staging environments and run the final Docker image on your own private cloud or the one from your customers. It's especially useful when your customers ask to run your application in their own environments for various reasons (Big Co wanting to control their infrastructure, legal reasons like in the MedTech world for instance).

## Setup of the Addon

Provision the addon for your application from our web dashboard or with our CLI:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-add scalingo-docker-image base-plan
```

## Usage of the Addon

Once the addon has been provisioned, the deployments panel of your app dashboard
will change, a **Docker logo** will be present. Click on it to get the instructions
to download the image of a given deployment.

{% assign img_url = "https://cdn.scalingo.com/documentation/docker-image-addon/dashboard-example.png" %}
{% include mdl_img.html %}

### Login to Your Application Registry

```bash
$ docker login registry.scalingo.com
Username: <Scalingo username>
Password: <Scalingo API token>
Email:    <Scalingo email>
```

The API token must be created on [your
profile](https://my.scalingo.com/profile), copy it from there.


### Download Your Image

```bash
$ docker pull registry.scalingo.com/my-app:0123456789abcdef
0123456789abcdef: Pulling from my-app
6599cadaf950: Downloading 59.99 MB/65.69 MB
23eda618d451: Download complete
f0be3084efe9: Download complete
52de432f084b: Download complete
a3ed95caeb02: Download complete
b11499e07372: Download complete
40d9c9cec188: Download complete
b7c87d00e3ba: Downloading 31.84 MB/362.9 MB
9aac245cd453: Downloading 23.74 MB/60.04 MB
f1ac1758a0cb: Waiting
```

### Run Your App

The entrypoint of the image is a script located at `/start`. Its usage is:

```bash
/start <container type>

# Example, start the web (default) process
/start web
```

The complete docker command to start your app on port 4000 looks like the following:

```bash
docker run -it \
  -e PORT=4000 \
  --publish 4000:4000 \
  --user appsdeck \
  registry.scalingo.com/my-app:0123456789abcdef /start web
```

In this case no environment variable has been set, you need to add the environment variables required by your
app by adding multiple `-e` flags:

```bash
docker run -it \
  -e PORT=4000 \
  -e RAILS_ENV=production \
  -e RACK_ENV=production \
  -e DATABASE_URL=postgres://172.17.0.1:5432 \
  -e MAIL_URL=smtp://user:password@mailprovider.com:587 \
  --publish 4000:4000 \
  --user appsdeck \
  registry.scalingo.com/my-app:0123456789abcdef /start web
```

{% note %}
  We are using `172.17.0.1` as `DATABASE_URL` host because in a container, your computer will be reachable at this IP.
{% endnote %}

That's it, your app is running with your environment.
