---
index: 1
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2026-01-21 12:00:00
---

{% warning %}
This feature is currently only available on beta preview for some customers.\\
If you are interested in taking part to the beta, please get in touch with the
Scalingo support team, they will check you qualify and grant you access.
{% endwarning %}

**Private Networks** is a feature that, within [a project][project], allows to
group applications containers in a dedicated and isolated network, called
*Private Network*.

While all containers within the same Private Network can freely communicate
with each other, only a few are made reachable from the outside world. This
lowers the exposure of your applications to external threats, while providing
more freedom inside the Private Network.

By providing this feature **free of charge**, we give you the
opportunity to drastically improve the security of your apps, and
extend the possibilities offered by Scalingo by supporting
architecture models that were previously hard to deploy and maintain.


## Private Networks in a Nutshell

Project-scoped
: A Private Network is tightly bound to a [project]. All applications
  containers of the project are in the Private Network.

Applications only (for now)
: At this stage, Private Networks are available for applications containers
  only.

Private DNS per container
: Each container gets a [private domain name], resolvable and usable only
  within the same Private Network.

WireGuard-based encryption
: Traffic within a Private Network is encrypted using WireGuard, with keys
  fully managed by Scalingo.


## Typical Use-Cases and Key Benefits

Private Networks offer numerous benefits. They typically **allow to**:

- **Implement network-level access control**\\
  Deploying your own application gateway as entrypoint allows to enforce
  tailored network policies such as rate-limiting, IP whitelisting, or routing
  policies. This allows to:
  - highly reduce the attack surface of your applications,
  - finely control who can access your applications,
  - [block well-known threats][modsecurity] and malicious actors.

- **Deploy unrestricted in-house APIs**\\
  Traffic inside a Private Network is not bound to a specific protocol or port:
  all containers can freely communicate using any protocol (UDP or TCP) on any
  ports.\\
  Moreover, the traffic stays private: it never traverses, nor reaches the
  public Internet when communicating with internal services. The internal
  traffic never leaves the Private Network since containers can **directly**
  communicate with each other.

- **Protect data exchange with end-to-end security**\\
  All communications between containers within a same Private Network are
  encrypted using proven, state-of-the-art cryptography. This ensures that
  sensitive data stays secured, even when transiting inside the Private
  Network.

- **Maintain full compliance with industry standards and legal regulations**\\
  Strongly regulated sectors, such as finance or healthcare ([HDS]), often have
  strict compliance requirements that can be fullfilled thanks to Private
  Networks.

- **Optimize workloads for maximum responsiveness**\\
  The isolation layer provided by Private Networks can ensure stable and
  reliable application performance by avoiding "noisy neighbor" effects, common
  in shared and mutualized environments.


[project]: {% post_url platform/projects/2000-01-01-overview %}
[private domain name]: {% post_url platform/networking/private/2000-01-01-concepts %}#private-domain-names
[HDS]: {% post_url compliance/2000-01-01-hds %}
[modsecurity]: {% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-modsecurity %}

