---
title: Scalingo for Caching
nav: Introduction
modified_at: 2025-12-30 00:00:00
tags: databases redis addon
index: 1
---

{% note %}
Scalingo for Redis®* is now Scalingo for Caching. The name has changed, but the service remains the same.
{% endnote %}

Scalingo for Caching is the official Redis®* OSS addon provided by Scalingo. Details on the available plans can be found [here](https://scalingo.com/databases/redis). This addon gives your app instant access to a Redis® OSS database running in its own Docker container.

## Adding Scalingo for Caching to Your app

You can add the Scalingo for Caching addon through the dashboard or through the command line interface. The capacity of your database is elastic, you will be able to upgrade it later.

### Through the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to add
4. In the dialog select the database plan you need
5. Validate your choice

### Through the Command-Line Interface

{% include info_command_line_tool.md %}

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-add redis redis-starter-1024

-----> Addon redis has been provisionned
       ID: my-app-3030
       Modified variables: [REDIS_URL SCALINGO_REDIS_URL]
       Message from addon provider: Database successfully created
```

This command will provision the application `my-app` with a `redis-starter-1024`
Scalingo for Caching database plan.

To find out what other plans are available:

```bash
$ scalingo addons-plans redis
```

## Scalingo for Caching Cluster Setup

If using a Business plan for your Scalingo for Caching addon, we setup a Redis® OSS cluster. This
cluster has the following configuration:

- multiple Redis® OSS nodes in a private network: the amount of memory per node
  depends on the plan,
- a couple of HAProxy as entrypoint to the Redis® OSS private network: one is the
  leader and the other is just here as a backup in case of failing leader.
- three Redis® OSS sentinels to initiate the election of a new leader if the current
  leader fails.

## Getting Your Connection URI

Once the addon is provisioned, 2 environment variables are added to your app: `SCALINGO_REDIS_URL` and `REDIS_URL`. `REDIS_URL` is an alias to `SCALINGO_REDIS_URL` for the convenience of some libraries such as the Ruby gem [sidekiq](https://sidekiq.org/), but using `SCALINGO_REDIS_URL` is preferred in most cases. To find out how to use it in your code please refer to [Application environment]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-environment %}).

In most cases, you can pass the variable directly to the client library you are using in your code. But sometimes the library requires a specific URI format, you'll need to add a little bit of code to suit the library.

You can get environment variables from the dashboard or the command line interface.

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Environment** tab
3. `SCALINGO_REDIS_URL` is displayed

### From the Command-Line Interface

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app env | grep REDIS

REDIS_URL=$SCALINGO_REDIS_URL
SCALINGO_REDIS_URL=redis://my-app-3030:YANs3y07m5_KJC2MSDGebh8tx1lliFWh2Yb239zVqGQvbElWDjIN7QWspVH92Ul8@my-app-3030.redis.a.osc-fr1.scalingo-dbs.com:30996
```

## Remote Access Your Database

If you need to access your database from other places than your app please follow the [Access your database]({% post_url platform/databases/2000-01-01-access %}) guide.

### Force TLS Connections

If you want to enforce TLS connections to your database so that TLS is not only available, but **mandatory**:

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. In the **Settings** submenu, select **Internet Access**
4. Locate the **Force TLS connections** block
5. Click the **Enable** button

Once this option is activated, the database denies any non-TLS connection.
Consequently, your application must be configured to use TLS when connecting to the database.
Please note that while we strongly advise to use TLS, it remains an option, meaning that you can still access your database without it if needed.

## Scalingo for Caching Configuration

### Number of Databases

Each Redis® OSS instance can use 5 databases (numbered from 0, the default DB, to 4).

### Idle Connections Timeout

Redis® OSS configuration:

```
timeout 150
```

It means that if a connection has not been used during 150 seconds, it will be automatically closed
by Redis® OSS. This is done to avoid accumulating staled connections. You must ensure that your
application code handles gracefully potential timeouts in Redis® OSS connections.

### Persistence Mode

Redis® OSS does not write all the operations requested by users on disk instantly, the write operations
are done asynchronously by following different rules. There are two
[persistence](https://redis.io/topics/persistence) modes: snapshot and strong persistence. They both
represent a different trade-off in terms of performance and reliability. As such, you must take
great care in your Redis® OSS persistence mode settings.

#### Snapshot Persistence aka RDB

The first, and *default mode*, is the snapshot mode (also called RDB). It provides a compromise
between performance and persistence. Data are saved to disk periodically, according to a defined
number of write operations, asynchronously:

- Save to disk every 15 minutes if at least 1 operation has been done
- Save to disk every 5 minutes if at least 10 operations have been done
- Save to disk every minute if at least 10,000 operations have been done

It means that in the scope of an incident, recent data are lost.

##### Managing it from the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. In the **Settings** submenu, select **Configuration**
4. Locate the **RDB Persistence** block
5. Click the **Enable** button

#### Strong Persistence aka AOF

The second mode provides Redis® OSS with the highest level of persistence (also called AOF). Any command
impacting the dataset will be saved synchronously in a file. In case of incident, Redis® OSS replays the
logged operations to reconstruct the database dataset.

The typical use case is when using Redis® OSS as a key-value store. We can imagine the comments on a blog
post page being stored in a Redis® OSS list. Losing comments because of an unexpected Redis® OSS restart is
not acceptable and activating AOF mode sounds like a good idea.

##### Managing it from the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. In the **Settings** submenu, select **Configuration**
4. Locate the **AOF Persistence** block
5. Click the **Enable** button

### Cache Mode

The last available configuration is related to how long data are stored in Redis® OSS. When cache mode is
activated and the memory is full, Redis® OSS will automatically drop the less recently used data to free
up memory for most recent data. Be cautious as any data can be deleted.

{% warning %}
Don't use your Redis® OSS instance to store important information in cache mode.
{% endwarning %}

The typical use case is Scalingo's homepage and blog. It uses Redis® OSS as a cache for HTML fragments.
In such case, we can afford using the oldest data stored in Redis® OSS, and re-compute them if needed.

This feature uses [two settings](https://redis.io/topics/lru-cache) of Redis® OSS:

- `maxmemory`: Amount of data Redis® OSS accepts before dropping some of them. It is set at the value of
  the memory available of the database plan you have chosen.
- `maxmemory-policy`: Set at `allkeys-lru`, which means ‘Least Recently Used’ keys will be evicted
  first if the `maxmemory` amount is reached.

#### Managing it from the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. In the **Settings** submenu, select **Configuration**
4. Locate the **Cache Mode** block
5. Click the **Enable** button

## Changing Plans

You can change your Scalingo for Caching addon plan whenever you want. The
operation is launched instantly, no manual input is required.

The impact on your application and the downtime vary depending on several
factors such as the current plan being used and the one you wish to change for
(see below for further information).

{% warning %}
While switching to a more powerful plan is rather safe, you should take extra
care when changing for a less powerful plan: please make sure the new plan can
handle all your data and fits your application workload.
{% endwarning %}

### Understanding the Plan Change Process

#### From Starter to Starter

When changing the size of a Starter plan, the platform reboots the existing
instance with the new size. This leads to a small service interruption
during which the database is not available. This shouldn't exceed a few seconds
though.

| From (class) | To (class) | To (size) | Downtime | Duration     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Starter      | Starter    | Any       | **Yes**  | 2-10 seconds |

#### From Starter to Business

When changing for a Business plan, the platform starts additional instances
with the targeted size. If necessary, it then reboots the previously existing
instance with the targeted size. There should be no downtime at all, thanks to
the failover mechanism included with the Business plan.

| From (class) | To (class) | To (size) | Downtime | Duration     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Starter      | Business   | Any       | **No**   | Zero         |

#### From Business to Starter

When changing for a lower class, the platform first powers the surplus
instances off. When necessary, the remaining instance is rebooted with the
targeted new size. This can lead to a small service interruption during which
the database is not available. This shouldn't exceed a few seconds though.

| From (class) | To (class) | To (size) | Downtime | Duration     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Business     | Starter    | Same      | **No**   | Zero         |
| Business     | Starter    | Larger    | **Yes**  | 2-10 seconds |
| Business     | Starter    | Smaller   | **Yes**  | 2-10 seconds |

#### From Business to Business

When changing the size of a Business plan, the platform reboots the instances
with the targeted new size one by one. There's no downtime during this
operation, thanks to the high availability mechanism included in the Business
plan.

| From (class) | To (class) | To (size) | Downtime | Duration     |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Business     | Business   | Any       | **No**   | Zero         |

### From the Dashboard

1. Go to your app on [Scalingo Dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps)
2. Click on **Addons** tab
3. Select the addon you want to change
4. In the dialog select the plan you want to upgrade/downgrade to
5. Validate your choice

### From the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Click the **Settings** tab
3. In **General**, select **Change plan**
4. Select the new plan
5. Click the **Finish** button
6. Validate by clicking the **Confirm plan change** button

### From the Command-Line Interface

To upgrade or downgrade your addon the sub-command is the same: `addons-upgrade`.

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons-upgrade ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4 redis-starter-2048
```

In this example, `ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4` is the ID of the addon, and `redis-starter-2048`
is the plan we want to upgrade to.

To find out the addon ID:

```bash
$ scalingo --app my-app addons

+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
|  ADDON |                   ID                    |        PLAN         |
+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Redis  | ad-0f1ab3e1-e97d-4f33-9168-4956379731a4 | redis-business-256  |
+--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
```

## Database Dashboard

The Scalingo for Caching dashboard is the central place for administrative tasks such as:

- Monitor database and system stats
- Upgrade the database engine version
- Activate database specific features
- Manage database users
- Manage backups

### Database Upgrade

When the database vendor releases a new version of your database engine, we take some time to study it and test it thoroughly before making it available.
Upgrading to this new version is still your choice. We don't do it automatically.

{% warning %}
Beware that no downgrade is possible once your database has been upgraded.
{% endwarning %}

Your database needs to be upgraded to the latest minor version before having access to the next major version. For instance, let's imagine that your version is `2.3.x` and you want to upgrade to `3.1.x`. If there is a `2.5.x` version available, you first need to upgrade your database to the `2.5.x` version before upgrading to the `3.1.x` version.

During the upgrade, a downtime can unfortunately happen, depending on the Plan you are using and the upgrade:
- **Starter Plans**: In all cases, we have to stop the node to upgrade it,
  causing an inevitable downtime.
- **Business Plans**: We are able to achieve zero-downtime upgrade of minor version. In the case of major version upgrade, we need to completely stop the nodes, hence causing an inevitable downtime.
In both cases, once the operation is finished, the application is restarted.

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Select the **Settings** tab
3. In the **Settings** submenu, select the **General** tab
4. Locate the **Database Version** block
5. If an upgrade is available, a button allows you to trigger the upgrade
6. Click the button to launch the upgrade process

### Container Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">CPU usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Current CPU usage.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Memory usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free memory. Highest is the maximum memory recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Swap usage</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Display the current, hightest and free swap. Highest is the maximum swap recorded since database restarted.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

### Database Stats

<div class="overflow-horizontal-content">
  <table class="mdl-data-table ">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Database on disk size</td>
        <td class="mdl-data-table__cell--non-numeric">Effective physical space used.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

### Database Users

Scalingo does not leverage yet the ACL feature introduced in Redis® OSS 6. Hence Scalingo for Caching databases have a single default user with a password generated by Scalingo. The list of ACL of this default user are:

```
user default on <password> ~* &* +@all
```

It is not possible to create another user on a Scalingo for Caching database.

## Backups

{% include database_backups.md %}

{% note %}
If your database has multiple nodes, the dump is done on the secondary node.
{% endnote %}

### Downloading a Backup

#### Using the Database Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your database dashboard
2. Click the **Backups** tab
3. Locate the **Backups** block
4. Locate the Periodic backup you are interested in
5. Click the corresponding **Download** button

#### Using the Command Line
1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool]({% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %})
2. Run the following command(s):
   - To download the latest backup available:
     ```bash
     scalingo --app my-app --addon redis backups-download
     ```
     The output should look like this:
     ```text
     -----> Selected the most recent successful backup
     139.37 KiB / 139.37 KiB [----------------------------------] 100.00% ? p/s
     ===> 20231207000608_my_app_4553.tar.gz
     ```
     The backup is downloaded in your current working directory.
   - To download a specific backup:
     1. List the backups available for this database addon:
        ```bash
        scalingo --app my-app --addon redis backups
        ```
        The output should look like this:
        ```text
        +--------------------------+--------------------------------+--------+--------+
        |            ID            |           CREATED AT           |  SIZE  | STATUS |
        +--------------------------+--------------------------------+--------+--------+
        | 65710b0a99c3cd23d455edee | Thu, 07 Dec 2023 01:00:10 CET  | 143 kB | done   |
        | 656fb98b99c3cd23d455d4e7 | Wed, 06 Dec 2023 01:00:11 CET  | 143 kB | done   |
        | 656e680a99c3cd23d455c1f0 | Tue, 05 Dec 2023 01:00:10 CET  | 143 kB | done   |
        ...
        ```
     2. Locate the `ID` of the backup you want to download
     3. Download the backup:
        ```bash
        scalingo --app my-app --addon redis backups-download --backup <backup_ID>
        ```
        The output should look like this:
        ```text
        79.10 KiB / 79.10 KiB [---------------------------------] 100.00% ? p/s
        ===> 20230305000044_my_app_4553.tar.gz
        ```
        The backup is downloaded in your current working directory.

{% include encryption_at_rest.md %}

## Limitations

### HAProxy Connection Limitation

When using a Business plan, the HAProxy instances serving as entry points to your cluster have a default limit of **2,000 concurrent TCP connections**.

If this limit is reached, any new connection will be abruptly refused.

This can result in "Connection timed out" errors such as:

- _Redis::CannotConnectError : Connection timed out_

## Redis® Trademark Notice

*Redis® is a registered trademark of Redis® Ltd. Any rights therein are reserved to Redis® Ltd. Any use by Scalingo is for referential purposes only and does not indicate any sponsorship, endorsement or affiliation between Redis® and Scalingo.
