---
title: Scalingo TCP Addon
modified_at: 2017-10-23 00:00:00
category: addons
tags: tcp load balancer addon custom
---

## Introduction

By default, Scalingo will only let you run application that communicate via
HTTP or HTTPS. Sometimes this is not enough and you need to have applications
that can accept raw TCP connections.

This addon lets you deploy applications that can accept raw TCP connections.

## Setup of the Addon

### Provision the Addon

First, you need to add the TCP addon to your application. This can be done
through the dashboard on the addons section of your app under the `Network`
category.

### Setup Configuration

In order to use the Scalingo TCP addon, you need to define a new container
type. This can be done in your [Procfile]({% post_url
internals/2014-12-01-procfile %}).

Here is a sample Procfile for a Node.js application:

```
web: npm start
tcp: npm run start-tcp
```

### Contact your Application

When your application starts, a `PORT` environment variable is defined in your
container. Your application must listen on this port in order to be accessible
from the outside. This is the exact same mechanism and the exact same
environment variable that the one used to expose a HTTP server in a `web`
container.

Once up and running your application will be accessible at the URL defined by
the `TCP_URL` environment variable.

This `TCP_URL` looks like:
`tcp://tcp-gateway-1.eu-fr-agora-1.scalingo.com:20003`

You can find this environment variable on our dashboard or by using our CLI:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app env | grep TCP_URL
```

This URL is also accessible on the addon dashboard.

<blockquote class="info">
  Your TCP containers might be restarted at any moment by our scheduler, this
  is done with 0 downtime, but the connections to the old containers are
  dropped. Hence your client must contain a retry policy in case a connection
  is dropped.
</blockquote>

If you need to contact a `tcp` container from a `web` container, you must also
use this URL, there is no direct link between your containers, every
communication must pass via our load balancer. It's the exact same thing if you
need to contact a `web` container from a `tcp` container, you must use the
public URL of the `web` container.

### Application Restart and New Deployments

When a new version of the application is pushed or when the `tcp` containers
are restarted, newly created `tcp` containers are started. TCP handshakes are then
sent to your applications. Once a TCP handshake is successfull, newly incoming
TCP connections will be sent to this container and old containers will receive
a `SIGTERM` signal, notifying them to stop, see [container-management]({% post_url
internals/2014-11-25-container-management %}) for more informations.

The server application is responsible for closing opened connections with its
clients once the the signal `SIGTERM` has been catched. If the
server does not close the connections, the new rules will be updated and next
packets will be dropped causing the clients to timeout.

## Load Balancing

If you have multiple `tcp` containers running, Scalingo distributes connections
to those containers. Our load balancer distributes connections during the TCP
handshake. When established, the communication is always routed to the same
server.

## Rate Limiting

Your bandwidth to and from your containers is limited. This limit depends on
your addon plan. This limit is expressed in packet per second per container. If
a container gets over his limit, excess packets will be dropped.

Since the MTU is generally equal to 1500 bytes, you can do the conversion
packet/s to byte/s by multiplying your rate limit by 1500.

If you have an addon with a limit of 1000 packet/s with 4 containers running,
your bandwidth is:

`1000 * 1500 = 1.5 MB/s` for one container.

`1.5 * 4 = 6 MB/s` for all your containers.

A limit burst is granted for every container. This burst is equal to 10 times
the limit, so if you have a limit of 10 packets/s, your burst will be set to 100
packets.

## Limitations

To be able to load balance tcp connections, connections are proxied to your
containers via NAT. This process comes with a downside: the TCP source IP needs
to be replaced by our front servers internal IP, this mean that a `tcp`
container wont be able to access the real client IP. Thus, the device
identification should be part of the protocol you designed over the TCP
connection.

## Samples

You can find a sample Node.js application that uses this addon to expose a
MQTT server built with Mosca
[on Github](https://github.com/Scalingo/sample-node-mosca).
