---
title: Play!
modified_at: 2017-06-14 00:00:00
tags: play java
---

If you are looking to deploy a Play2 application, please have a look at:

* [The Java documentation]({% post_url languages/java/2000-01-01-start %})
* [The Scala documentation]({% post_url languages/scala/2000-01-01-start %})

The process explained in this page only matches with the 1.4.4 version of Play!.

## Usage

Example usage:

```bash
  $ ls
  app	conf	lib	public	test

  $ scalingo create my-app

  $ git push scalingo master
  ...
  -----> Fetching custom build pack... done
  -----> Play! app detected
  -----> Installing Play!..... done
  -----> Installing ivysettings.xml..... done
  -----> Building Play! application...
         ~        _            _
         ~  _ __ | | __ _ _  _| |
         ~ | '_ \| |/ _' | || |_|
         ~ |  __/|_|\____|\__ (_)
         ~ |_|            |__/
         ~
         ~ play! 1.4.4, http://www.playframework.org
         ~
         1.4.4
         Building Play! application at directory ./
  ...
```

The buildpack will detect your app as using the Play! framework if it has an
`application.conf` in a `conf` directory. Your dependencies will be resolved
using `play dependencies` and your app precompiled with `play precompile`. If
you don't provide a Procfile the build pack will default to launching your app
with `play run --%prod -Dprecompiled=true`.

## Play Versions

The buildpack will read the Play! version that your application expects from
your `dependencies.yml` file. The version comes on the same line where you
already declare a dependency on the Play! framework itself:

```yaml
require:
  - play 1.4.4
```

If you don't specify a version it will be defaulted for you and you'll see a
warning message in your build output. It is a best practice to specify the
version of the framework that you intend to use.

Once your application is live you can upgrade the Play! version simply by
changing the version in your `dependencies.yml`. If you don't specify a version
and use the default version your application will not be updated when the
default version is updated. This is so that you don't have to deal with your
application being upgraded unexpectedly.

## Customizing Ivy

You can customize the Ivy execution by creating a `.ivy2-overlay` directory in
your project and adding it to Git. The contents of this directory will be
copied over the default `.ivy2` directory. In this way, you can add files such
as `.ivy2-overlay/ivysettings.xml` to customize the Ivy execution.

## Buildpack

More information at
[https://github.com/Scalingo/play-buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/play-buildpack).
