---
title: Correctly deploy your .war archive
modified_at: 2015-03-25 00:00:00
category: languages
tags: war, java,
---

# Correctly deploy your .war archive

If the result of your maven build result in a `.war` file, a little additional
work is required.

## Add the webapp-runner as dependency

To correcly execute your war file, we need you to add the
[webapp-runner](https://github.com/jsimone/webapp-runner) dependency to your
`pom.xml` file. This dependency let us start your application by starting
Tomcat in a simple command.

{% highlight xml %}
<build>
  ...
  <plugins>
    ...
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>maven-dependency-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>2.3</version>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <phase>package</phase>
          <goals><goal>copy</goal></goals>
          <configuration>
            <artifactItems>
              <artifactItem>
                <groupId>com.github.jsimone</groupId>
                <artifactId>webapp-runner</artifactId>
                <version>7.0.57.2</version>
                <destFileName>webapp-runner.jar</destFileName>
              </artifactItem>
            </artifactItems>
          </configuration>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
{% endhighlight %}

## Define your Procfile

To tell use how to start your application, you need to create a `Procfile` file
at the root of your project: [more doc about Procfiles]({% post_url /internals/2014-12-01-procfile %})

{% highlight yaml %}
web: java $JAVA_OPTS -jar target/dependency/webapp-runner.jar --port $PORT target/*.war
{% endhighlight %}

That's it, just commit your `pom.xml` and your `Procfile` and your app will
deploy in the blink of an eye.

## Cleanup your application image

When you prepare a `war` archive from your application. Every dependency is packaged
into it and the war file should be almost autonomous. You don't need too keep all your
build dependencies in your application image.

To do so, [create a `.slugingore` file]({% post_url /internals/2015-03-24-slugignore %}) and list the directories
which are not essential to your application.

### Example

Once built, a java application will contain the following file tree structure:

{% highlight text %}
myproject/src
myproject/target
myproject/target/classes
myproject/pom.xml
target/myproject.war
.m2/
.jdk/
pom.xml
Procfile
.slugingore
.gitignore
{% endhighlight %}

For instance, the `.slugignore` file may contain:

{% highlight text %}
.m2
{% endhighlight %}

As a result, all the maven local repository will be excluded from the
application image.

## See also

* [Java documentation]({% post_url /languages/java/2015-09-01-intro-java %}): Learn about java deployment process
* [Slugignore definition]({% post_url /internals/2015-03-24-slugignore %}): Lighten your application image for faster deployments
* [Procfile structure]({% post_url /internals/2014-12-01-procfile %}): Know how to start and define process types for your application
