---
title: Stacks
nav: Overview
modified_at: 2026-06-22
index: 1
---

Applications on Scalingo run inside Linux containers. These containers are
built from a base image maintained by Scalingo, itself derived from an
**official Ubuntu Long-Term Support** Docker image.

This base image is referred to as a ***stack***.

Scalingo currently supports three stacks:

| Stack             | Base Distribution | Supported Through | Status                                               |
| ----------------- | ----------------: | ----------------: | ---------------------------------------------------: |
| **[scalingo-26]** | Ubuntu 26.04 LTS  | May 2031          | <span class="stack supported">Supported</span>       |
| **[scalingo-24]** | Ubuntu 24.04 LTS  | May 2029          | <span class="stack supported">Supported</span>       |
| **[scalingo-22]** | Ubuntu 22.04 LTS  | May 2027          | <span class="stack deprecated">Deprecated</span>     |
| scalingo-20       | Ubuntu 20.04 LTS  | April 2025        | <span class="stack discontinued">Discontinued</span> |
| scalingo-18       | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS  | April 2023        | <span class="stack discontinued">Discontinued</span> |
| scalingo-14       | Ubuntu 14.04 LTS  | December 2019     | <span class="stack discontinued">Discontinued</span> |

The default stack for all newly created applications is {% scalingo 26 %}.

{% note %}
We recommend to always prioritize deployment of your applications on the latest
stack available (currently {% scalingo 26 %}).
{% endnote %}

## Understanding How the Stack is Built {#content}

Since the stacks are shared across all applications hosted on the platform,
they are designed to remain **generic** and **unspecialized**.
{: #para-one}

We complete the Ubuntu LTS base image with different libraries and softwares
commonly used in build processes or used by human when running [one-off]
containers:

- Build essentials utility (GCC, make, autotools, ...)
- curl, git, telnet, ssh, ssh-client, openssl, dnsutils, sqlite, rsync, jq, ...
- Ruby, Perl, Python
- ImageMagick
- PostgreSQL and MySQL related tools and libraries

Please refer to the dedicated page of each stack for an exhaustive list of
packages available.


## Understanding How the Stack is Used {#operation}

Each time an application is built, a new specific container image is generated
for your app. This image consists of the stack, plus an additional layer
containing the application. This additional layer is built by the platform,
using [buildpacks]. A buildpack typically transforms (e.g. compiles, installs
dependencies, ...) the application's source code into an executable *artifact*.

Once the build process succeeds, the resulting image is pushed to our private
registry, where it is later retrieved by our orchestrator to run the
application within our infrastructure.

Using a shared base image (i.e. the stack) provides a significant performance
advantage: once it has been downloaded onto a hosting node, it can be reused
for all applications relying on the same stack. Although this approach slightly
increases disk usage due to the inclusion of additional tools and libraries in
the image (see above), starting a new container only requires fetching the
application-specific layer, thus reducing both startup time and network
transfers.


## Understanding the Stack Lifecycle {#lifecycle}

Because the stack is built on Ubuntu Long-Term Support releases, its
availability, maintenance, and retirement follow as much as possible the
support milestones defined by Ubuntu. This approach ensures that the stack
benefits from the stability, security updates, and predictable release cadence
of the upstream Ubuntu LTS ecosystem. We also hope it provides a clear timeline
for upgrades and support.

- A stack lifecycle begins when a new Ubuntu LTS release comes out. We create a
  new stack from this Ubuntu release, thoroughly test it against our official
  buildpacks, and release it as soon as everything looks good. From this point,
  the stack's status is <span class="stack supported">**Supported**</span>.
  {: #stack-supported}

  During this period, the stack receives regular updates. Packages included in
  the stack are updated approximately every quarter, and new packages may be
  introduced to provide additional features. If a security issue affecting the
  stack is identified, a new version is released as quickly as possible.

- Roughly a year **before** support for the base distribution ends, the stack
  enters its End-Of-Life (EOL) phase. Its status changes from Supported to
  <span class="stack deprecated">**Deprecated**</span>.
  {: #stack-deprecated}

  During this phase, the stack still remains actively supported, and keeps
  receiving regular updates. Yet, users are strongly encouraged to move their
  applications to a more recent stack to avoid any future unforeseen
  consequences.

- When the official support for the base distribution ends, the stack status
  switches to <span class="stack discontinued">**Discontinued**</span>, meaning
  it no longer receives updates, nor security fixes.
  {: #stack-discontinued}

  Existing applications running on a Discontinued stack keep running. However,
  the stack is no longer available on the platform. Consequently, all new
  deployments of the application, including Review Apps, are done using the new
  default stack.



| Status       | Meaning                                                                                   |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Supported    | The stack receives regular updates and can be used for new deployments.                   |
| Deprecated   | The stack is still supported. Users are encouraged to migrate to a newer supported stack. |
| Discontinued | The stack no longer receives updates and cannot be used for new deployments.              |


## Viewing Your App's Stack Name

### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool][cli]
2. From the command line, list the information for the application:
   ```shell
   scalingo --app my-app apps-info
   ```
   
   The output should look like this:
   ```shell
   +----------------+-------------+
   |    SETTINGS    |    VALUE    |
   +----------------+-------------+
   [...]
   | Stack          | scalingo-24 |
   [...]
   +----------------+-------------+
   ```

## Migrating to a Different Stack

### Planning the Migration

{% note %}
Updating the stack can have a significant impact on your application, and may
even require code changes. Consequently, we warmly recommend to test your
application before migrating your production instances.
{% endnote %}

- If you have a staging application hosted on Scalingo, [follow the
  instructions below](#migrating) to migrate to a more recent stack. Conduct
  your tests and deploy your fixes until your validation process is all green
  lights.

- Another way to test the stack upgrade without affecting your currently
  running application consists in creating a [review app]. Add a
  `scalingo.json` file to your project to specify the stack used to deploy the
  review app, like so:

  ```json
  {
    "stack": "<stack name>"
  }
  ```

  Make sure your review app deploys successfully and works flawlessly.

- As always, make sure you have a valid, tested backup before you actually
  migrate your production applications. Also prioritize low-traffic hours to
  minimize a potential negative impact.

- Once your application is ready for the new stack, migrate to the desired
  stack and redeploy using a [method described hereafter](#migrating).

### Migrating

{% note %}
A stack change only takes effect after the application is redeployed (i.e.
restarting it is **not** enough).
{% endnote %}

#### Using the Dashboard

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard]
2. Open the target application
3. Click the **Settings** tab
4. In the **Settings** submenu, select **General**
5. In the **Scalingo Stack** section, click **Change Scalingo Stack**
6. Select the new stack
7. Click **Change**
8. Trigger a new deployment to apply the stack change immediately
9. Run your functional tests to validate compatibility with the new stack

#### Using the Command Line

1. Make sure you have correctly [setup the Scalingo command line tool][cli]
2. From the command line, list available stacks:
   ```shell
   scalingo stacks
   ```

   The output should look like this:
   ```shell
   ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────┐
   │                   ID                    │        NAME         │                   DESCRIPTION                    │ DEFAULT ? │
   ├─────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────┤
   │ st-460d3f35-573b-40da-9316-b8f7e737f416 │ scalingo-26         │ Scalingo Stack based on Ubuntu 26.04 LTS         │ Yes       │
   │ st-e063df00-0cef-4950-bdc7-4d0a9f72c6b0 │ scalingo-24         │ Scalingo Stack based on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS         │ No        │
   │ st-7ccbf8e6-04d3-4e2c-98e3-604a4700cebc │ scalingo-22         │ Scalingo Stack based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS         │ No        │
   ```

3. Set the stack used to run your application:
   ```shell
   scalingo --app my-app stacks-set <stack name>
   ```
   With `stack name` being the **name** of the stack you want to run.

4. Redeploy your application:
   ```shell
   git commit --allow-empty -m "Upgrading to <stack name>"
   git push scalingo master
   ```


## Setting the Timezone

The timezone configured inside our base image is **UTC±00:00**. You can set it
to a different value by setting the environment variable **`TZ`** with the
desired [timezone][timezones]:
{: #timezone}

```shell
scalingo --app my-app env-set TZ=Europe/Paris
```

Our stacks are standard Docker images, and are free to download, use, or
inspect:

```shell
docker pull scalingo/scalingo-26
docker run --rm -it scalingo/scalingo-26:latest bash
```


*[EOL]: End Of Life
*[LTS]: Long-Term Support


[timezones]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones#List

[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com/


[cli]: {% post_url tools/cli/2000-01-01-start %}
[buildpacks]: {% post_url platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-intro %}
[scalingo-22]: {% post_url platform/internals/stacks/2000-01-01-scalingo-22-stack %}
[scalingo-24]: {% post_url platform/internals/stacks/2000-01-01-scalingo-24-stack %}
[scalingo-26]: {% post_url platform/internals/stacks/2000-01-01-scalingo-26-stack %}
[review app]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-review-apps %}
[one-off]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-tasks %}
