---
title: Node.js
modified_at: 2017-03-24 00:00:00
category: languages
tags: nodejs
index: 3
show_in_toc: true
permalink: /languages/javascript/nodejs/
---

Node.js is supported by Scalingo, furthermore, custom support has been added
to manage the [__meteor__]({% post_url languages/javascript/meteor/2015-03-22-meteor %}) framework.

* [Getting Started with Node.js]({% post_url languages/javascript/nodejs/2015-02-09-getting-started-with-nodejs %})
* [Getting Started with Meteor]({% post_url languages/javascript/meteor/2015-02-09-getting-started-with-meteor %})

## Buildpack

[Node.js Buildpack](https://github.com/Scalingo/nodejs-buildpack)

## Standard node applications

### Node.js app detection

The file `package.json` should be present at the root of the project.

### Dependencies installation

The dependencies of your project are installed either with the [NPM package manager](https://www.npmjs.com/) or the [Yarn package manager](https://yarnpkg.com/).

If a `yarn.lock` file is present at the root of your project, yarn will be used to install the dependencies and run scripts, otherwise npm will build the dependencies during the deployment.

> You can specify the version of yarn you want to use by defining it in the `package.json` file, with the key `engines.yarn`

> Yarn does not handle private modules, if you use them, keep using npm

### Install devDependencies

By default, dependencies present in the `devDependencies` field are not installed since they should not be needed for production.
If you want to install them, you'll need to set the `NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION` environment variable to false via our web interface or by using our CLI:

```bash
$ scalingo -a <myapp> env-set NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION=false
```

### Ensure you're tracking all your dependencies

It is important to ensure you are tracking all the dependencies of your project in the `package.json` file. Otherwise your app may build but will potentially crash during it's runtime, failing to find a dependency.

Usually it's because `npm install` has been run, without the `--save` flag: in this case the dependency is installed in the `node_modules` directory, but nothing is tracked in the `package.json` file.

You should also avoid to install global packages ie. `npm install -g grunt`. In this case packages are installed at the system level and are not tracked for your project.

In a nutshell: you should always use the following command when adding a dependency:

```
npm install --save <module>
```

>  If the module contains a binary like `grunt` or `gulp`, they will be installed in the `node_modules/.bin` directory, keeping them local and trackable.
> On Scalingo, the `node_modules/.bin` directory is added to your `PATH`, so you can directly use them.

### Do not track modules with git

When working locally on your code, after running `npm install`, a directory `node_modules` containing the dependencies of your application is created. You should not check this directory in your git repository. If the dependency is listed in your `package.json` file, it will automatically be installed during the deployment of your application.

Adding these files to git will create confusion and unnecessary noise in your code history and we consider it's a good practice to keep it clean, only add the useful code (the code of your project). Moreover some dependencies are building binaries during the installation, if your add these binaries to your repository, it may creates incompatibility with Scalingo runtime environment.

The good method to avoid checking in these files is to add the following content in a `.gitignore` file and commit this file.

```
node_modules
bower_components
# Any other file created by grun/gulp/webpack builds
```
Once that's done git, will ignore these directory when you're making your commits.

### Specifying a NodeJS version

In your `engines` section of your `package.json` file, you can specify a version of Node.js to use. If no version is defined, we'll install the latest stable version. It's exactly the same with `npm` if you want to use a specific version of it.

```javascript
{
  "name": "myapp",
  "engines": {
    "node": "4.2.x",
    "npm": "2.14.x"
  }
}
```

### Node.JS app startup

What we use in order of priority

1. `Procfile` at the root of your project
2. The field `.scripts.start` defined in your `package.json` 

Example of package.json:

```javascript
{
  ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

## Meteor application

If a `.meteor` file is detected at the root of your project, your app will
be considered as a Meteor application.

See the [Meteor applications documentation]({% post_url languages/javascript/meteor/2015-03-22-meteor %})
