---
title: Billing Overview
modified_at: 2025-07-02 12:00:00
tags: billing
index: 1
---


## Filling the Billing Profile

In order to provision larger than free tiers resources, or when your free trial
is over, you need to fill your billing profile.

Go to [https://dashboard.scalingo.com/billing](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/billing)

and fill the form.


## Priority Between Means of Payment

Scalingo offers various means of payment and you can complete multiple of them
in your [billing profile](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/billing). When a new bill is
generated for your account, Scalingo charges the different means of payment in
this order:

- Scalingo Credit,
- Credit Card,
- Paypal,
- SEPA.

## Paying via SEPA

{% warning %}
You must have paid 3 consecutive invoices with an amount higher or equal to 100€ using your credit card or Paypal.
{% endwarning %}

If you check the requirement above or if it's a blocker for you, contact our
Support team.


## What Happens in Case of Failed Payment?

It can happen that a payment of a bill fails. There are many reasons for that:
credit card expiration, bank rejection... In such case, you need to update an
existing payment method or add a new one. Then Scalingo automatically retries the
payment and you are good to go!

* * *

Configure your payment methods in this section. The platform supports 3 methods:

* Debit/Credit card payments: the beginning of each month, the platform charges on the cards what has been consumed the month before.  
* Prepaid credit bought with PayPal: buy credit in advance and we'll use them to pay the invoices. Payment fallback on the bank card if there is not enough credit to pay an invoice.  
* SEPA payment: for customers located in the European Union, SEPA debit can be used to pay invoices, an electronic SEPA mandate is generated during the setup process.

Payment history can also be found on this page, including links to download your past invoices.

An invoice from the previous month consumption in the platform is generated monthly. It sums up all the resources you have used on Scalingo, it includes:

* Application containers runtime  
* Application addons

If you bought prepaid-credit with PayPal and that you have not enough credit to pay the invoice, the invoice will be considered **unpaid** and you have to add more credit.

If you add a payment card, the platform tries to charge it when the invoice is generated. If the operation fails, the invoice will be considered **unpaid**. The charge operation is then retried automatically a few times before the account is suspended and the data deleted.

To resolve the issue, you can either add prepaid credit or update your payment method during this period. The new payment method will be charged right away to cover the unpaid invoice.









