---
title: Billing Process
nav: Billing Process
modified_at: 2025-07-02 12:00:00
index: 30
---


## Invoicing

At the beginning of each month, Scalingo computes your consumption for the
expired month and generates an invoice. The consumption is based on the
lifespan of the resources used by each of your apps. This includes containers,
add-ons, databases, one-off containers, review-apps, etc.

{% note %}
Most of our products and services are billed by the minute.
{% endnote %}

When the platform processes a payment, it will select one payment method based on the priority order below. This chosen method will then be used for all retries of the payment attempt.

### Priority Order

1. Prepaid Credits
   - If there is enough credit, the invoice is paid entirely using credits.
   - If there is not enough credit, the next available payment method (according to the priority order below) will be tried to pay the invoice.

2. SEPA
   - If at least one SEPA mandate is available, the one marked as default will be used.

3. Debit/Credit Card
   - If at least one Debit/Credit Card is available, the one marked as default will be used.

4. Failure
   - If none of the above methods can be chosen, the invoice is marked as failed and will be retried later. If the failure persists after multiple retries, [your Scalingo account will be suspended](#payment-failure).

{% note %}
According to the priority order above, if both a SEPA mandate and a Debit/Credit Card are available, SEPA will always be chosen. If the payment cannot be completed with SEPA, the Card will not be used, and the invoice will instead be marked as failed.
{% endnote %}

## Payment Failure

### Fixing Payment Failure

It can happen that a payment of a bill fails. There are many reasons for that:
credit card expiration, bank rejection…

In such a case:

1. **Update** an existing payment method **or add a new one**
   - If you are paying via prepaid credits and you don't have enough credits,
     the invoice is considered as **unpaid**. You will have to add enough
     credits to pay the invoice.
   - If you are paying via credit card, the platform marks your invoice as
     **unpaid** after the first payment failure. You will have to resolve the
     issue (most of the time the card has simply expired).

2. Scalingo automatically retries the payment several times before quitting.
   If the payment still fails, the account is **suspended**, which means all
   the applications and addons linked to the account are put on hold.

3. If the situation is not fixed after a while, we may delete the apps and
   data.

{% note %}
Please get in touch with our Support team if you are facing a difficult
situation related to the payments of your invoices.
{% endnote %}

### Recovering From a Suspended Account

To fully recover after your account has been suspended:

1. From your web browser, open your [dashboard][dashboard]
2. Select the app you want to resume
3. If the app has a database addon, resume it
4. [Scale your application's][scale-h] containers to a value > 0
5. Your application is back online


## Monitoring Account Suspensions

The following events are available to monitor account suspensions:

| Event             | Description                 |
| ----------------- | --------------------------- |
| `app_stopped`     | An app has been stopped.<br />`reason` field is set to `payment_failure` |
| `addon_resumed`   | An addon has been resumed   |
| `addon_suspended` | An addon has been suspended |

To learn more about events and notifications, please visit the page dedicated
to [app notifications][notifications].


[dashboard]: https://dashboard.scalingo.com

[notifications]: {% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-notification %}
[scale-h]: {% post_url /platform/app/scaling/2000-01-01-scaling %}#using-the-dashboard-1
