---
title: Get Started with Ruby on Rails on Scalingo
nav: Get Started
modified_at: 2025-08-20 12:00:00
tags: ruby rails tutorial getting-started-tutorial
index: 1
---

## Initialize Your Application

```bash
$ rails new my-app

#
# It creates files and run 'bundle install'
#

$ git init
$ git add .
$ git commit --message="Base rails application"
```

## Create Your Application on Scalingo

{% note %}
You can also use our web dashboard to achieve this operation
{% endnote %}

```bash
$ scalingo create my-app
Git repository detected: remote scalingo added
→ 'git push scalingo master' to deploy your app
```

## Provision and Configure Your Database

* Go on the [dashboard](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/apps) of your application.
* Select the __Addons__ category
* Choose the database you want to use

{% note %}
Note for SQL databases: at the boot of the database, Scalingo creates a database. If you need a specific configuration of charset or collation, you need to configure it before executing the first database migration.
{% endnote %}

### PostgreSQL®

Add the gem `pg` to your `Gemfile`.

#### With the PostGIS Extension

In order to deal with geographic data, you may want to [enable PostGIS]({% post_url databases/postgresql/shared-resources/guides/2000-01-01-postgis %}). It is often used with the gem [`activerecord-postgis-adapter`](https://rubygems.org/gems/activerecord-postgis-adapter). In case you face the following error message:

```text
Unknown key: :geographic.
```

Fixing this error requires to update the Rails configuration file `config/database.yml` with:

```erb
url: <%= ENV["DATABASE_URL"]&.gsub(/postgres:/, 'postgis:') %>
```

### MySQL®

Add the gem `mysql` to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem 'mysql2', '~> v0.3.18'
```

Then set the following environment variable:

* `DATABASE_URL`: Copy the value of `SCALINGO_MYSQL_URL` and replace 'mysql://' by 'mysql2://'\\
This can be automated in `config/database.yml`:
```erb
url: <%= ENV["DATABASE_URL"]&.gsub(/mysql:/, 'mysql2') %>
```

{% include info_environment_how_to.md %}

### MongoDB®

To use a MongoDB® database your need to add the gem `mongoid` to your `Gemfile`.
Please refer to [this guide]({% post_url languages/ruby/2000-01-01-mongoid %}).

## Setup Your Application Logging

By default, Rails applications don't write their logs to STDOUT but in a custom
file. We expect your application to write all its logging entries to STDOUT
and STDERR according to their nature, in accordance to the
[12-factor](https://12factor.net).

Why writing the logs to the standard output?

It is a requirement to let the platform aggregate them and let you browse your
application logs in the dashboard or with Scalingo's command line interface.

### Rails 5 and Later

You've nothing to do, everything is handled by the platform.

### Rails 4 and Before

* Add the following gem in your `Gemfile`: `gem "rails_12factor"`

The `rails_12factor` gem includes two gems, one of them is
`rails_stdout_logging`. Thanks to it, the application won't write the logs to
the `log/production.log` file but directly on the standard output.

## Serving Static Assets

All assets in the `/public` folder are automatically accessible. E.g. a file named `robots.txt` would be reachable at the address `https://my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io/robots.txt`.

{% note %}
We strongly advise you to use a CDN to host your assets. It will spare your containers resources which will be used for application-specific requests.
{% endnote %}

## Finalize and Deploy

```bash
$ bundle install
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Configure application for Scalingo"
$ git push scalingo master
```

### Database Migration

To run a migration, you need to use a [post-deployment hook]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-postdeploy-hook %}).

The Ruby on Rails application starts up before the schema has changed, but does not receive a query. The way ActiveRecord works on Rails is that the schema is loaded into memory on the first query on a given table.

As a result, if operations are started before the migration has been executed (per example initializers or an asynchronous worker), the application may load the schema `pre-migration`. A restart could be necessary after the migration.

The best practice is to perform non-destructive migrations, where a column rename is performed in several steps, rather than an `ALTER TABLE` renaming a column.

A good example in `strong_migrations` gem [documentation](https://github.com/ankane/strong_migrations#renaming-a-column).

{% include app_start_without_migration.md %}

## Access Your Application

```bash
…
Waiting for your application to boot...
<-- https://my-app.osc-fr1.scalingo.io -->
```

A new application will render a 404 error `The page you were looking for doesn't exist.`,
but it's expected. There is nothing in the project, it's time to build your product!

## Specifying a Custom Node.js Runtime

Latest version of Rails application also use Node.js in case ExecJS or
Webpacker is detected. The Node.js version built inside the Ruby buildpack is
frozen. It is the latest version of the LTS 22.x at the time of writing.

If you ever need to specify a different version of Node.js, you need to setup
the [multi buildpacks]({% post_url
platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-multi %})), in order to use both the Node.js and the Ruby buildpack. The content of your `.buildpacks` file must respect the following order between the buildpacks:

```text
https://github.com/Scalingo/nodejs-buildpack.git
https://github.com/Scalingo/ruby-buildpack.git
```

You also need to remove the file `bin/yarn` if it already exists.

You eventually need to specify the [Node.js version]({% post_url
languages/nodejs/2000-01-01-start %}#specifying-a-nodejs-version) in your `package.json`.

## Configure Webpacker

**Important:** Webpacker is no longer maintained from Rails 7+. It should not be used in Rails 8. The official recommendation is to migrate to jsbundling-rails. This offers more flexibility with different bundlers like esbuild, rollup.js, bun, or webpack.

### For Rails 7+ Applications

Create new Rails 7+ applications using **jsbundling-rails** instead of Webpacker. Refer to the [jsbundling-rails repository](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) and the [advanced asset management guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html#advanced-asset-management) for more details.

### For existing applications using Webpacker

You may see the following error when deploying a Rails application which uses Webpacker:

```text
error Command "webpack" not found.
```

In order to fix this error, execute the locally the following commands:

```sh
bundle exec rails yarn:install
bundle exec rails webpacker:install
```

Commit and push the binstubs:

```sh
git add bin/*
git commit -m "Add Yarn and Webpacker binstubs"
git push scalingo master
```

### Recommended migration path

Migrate applications currently using Webpacker to jsbundling-rails with Webpack or another bundler. Follow the [official migration guide](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails/blob/main/docs/switch_from_webpacker.md) for this approach.

## Enable Webpack Compilation Output for Debugging

To see detailed webpack logs during deployment and debug webpack compilation issues, you need to enable webpack compilation output in your `config/webpacker.yml` file:

```
# config/webpacker.yml
production:
  # ... other configuration options
  webpack_compile_output: true
```

This setting is espacilly useful when webpack fails during deployment, as it will show you detailed error messages and warnings that can help identify the root cause of compilation issues.

**Important:** Without `webpack_compile_output: true`, webpack errors may appear as generic failures without detailed information, making debugging much more difficult.

## Common Webpack Deployment Issues

If you encounter webpack compilation errors during deployment, here are some common troubleshooting steps:

1. **Check your webpack logs:** Ensure `webpack_compile_output: true` is set in your production environment
2. **Verify asset compilation locally:** Run `RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rails assets:precompile` locally to test
3. **Check for missing dependencies:** Ensure all required packages are listed in your `package.json`
4. **Memory issues:** Large webpack builds may require additional memory during compilation

Example of typical webpack error output when debugging is enabled:
```
WARNING: 4 repetitive deprecation warnings omitted.

Precompiling assets failed.
An error occurred during buildpack compilation
Error deploying the application
Invalid return code from buildpack
```

With proper logging enabled, you'll see more detailed information about what specifically failed during webpack compilation process.

## Use VIPS to Process Image

Since Rails 7 the default image processing tool for ActiveStorage has been replaced from ImageMagick to VIPS. As VIPS isn't installed by default in our stack, you will need to install the `libvips-dev` package using the [APT Buildpack]({% post_url
platform/deployment/buildpacks/2000-01-01-apt %}).

Some functionalities, for example HEIF support, will be available only by adding optional package dependencies, see [VIPS documentation for more information](https://github.com/libvips/libvips#optional-dependencies).

## Specify a Secret Key Base

Starting with Rails 4.1, you can now specify a [secret key base](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html#method-i-secret_key_base),
which is used as the input secret to the application's key generator.

By default, this value is randomly generated by Scalingo. You can change this default value by setting the `SECRET_KEY_BASE` environment variable in your application.
